"","Jackson_uni_business","Jackson_uni_sci_marine","Jackson_uni_sci_in_Health","Jackson_uni_fine_arts","florida_uni_data","uni_of_north_flo_mba_2","uni_of_north_flo_healt_2","uni_of_north_flo_cs_ds_2","uni_of_north_flo_arts_2","Saint_Leo_University_arts_psyco_2","Saint_Leo_University_cs_2","Saint_Leo_University_mba_2","Saint_Leo_University_health_2","uni_of_tampa_fina_2","uni_of_tampa_it_2","uni_of_tampa_mba_2","uni_of_tampa_nur_2"
"1","
		Master of Business Administration
	 The MBA curriculum is a flexible program consisting of 36 credit hours for a professional MBA degree and 39 credit hours for an MBA with a concentration in one of the following five areas: Accounting and Finance, Management, Healthcare Management, Portfolio Management, or MBA Customized Professional. Non-business degree graduates must complete the foundation courses within the graduate business program or their equivalent in an undergraduate school of business. A student may test-out of the foundation courses. See the graduate academic advisor to schedule exam(s). The MBA program allows a student to earn an MBA in just 12 months of continuous study in a full-time program. It builds on a foundation of core business knowledge, while making development of a student's leadership skills a priority. Graduates from this program leave with solid business expertise and a portfolio of demonstrated leadership knowledge and skills. To be admitted into the Flex MBA Program as a Degree Candidate, all students must have earned an undergraduate degree from a regionally-accredited university. For a full list of Admissions requirements into the program, see Flex Degree Program in the Admissions section of this catalog. The program is designed to be completed in 12 months. If a student cannot complete the program they must successfully complete all course work no later than five years after the completion of the first graduate-level course taken after entrance into the program. 
			MBA Requirements
		 ACCT 522 Accounting for Managerial Control DSIM 518 Competing through Innovation, Analytics & Information Technology DSIM 535 Quantitative Approaches Decision-Making DSIM 577 Managing Production and Service Operati ECON 520 Economics of High Performance FIN 534 Optimizing Financial Performance INB 555 Competing in the Global Economy MGT 545 Global Corporate Strategy and Policy MGT 548 Leading People and Organizations MKG 540 Strategic Mkg in a Digital Economy 
			Additional Courses Required for MBA
		 MGT 566 Legal & Ethical Environment of Business XXX xxx Additional Elective: Choose one (1) three credit course from any of the concentration courses, electives or special topics offerings MBA students may elect one of six concentrations in Accounting and Finance, Management, FinTech, Healthcare Management, Portfolio Management, or the customized professional concentration.. In addition to the MBA Core courses, each concentration requires the courses as listed below. More than one concentration may be earned. One course cannot count for two concentrations. 
			Accounting and Finance
		 ACCT 620 Advanced Managerial Accounting    ACCT 650 Adv Managerial Acct & Finance Modeling   Or FIN 650 Adv Managerial Acct & Fin Modeling      Or    ACCT 670 Ethics & Government in Accoun    ACCT 680 Financial Decision-making   Or FIN 680 Financial Decision-making    FIN 610 Practicum in Portfolio Management 
			Healthcare Management Concentration
		 MSHI 500 Advanced Health Informatics I NUR 530 Financial Management of Nursing Systems HQS 502 Health Law, Regulatory Issues, and the Business of Healthcare Quality Improvement HQS 501 Introduction to Healthcare Quality/Culture, Interprofessional Teams, and Simulation    HQS 512 Organization, Delivery, and Policy in Healthcare   Or NUR 512 Organization, Delivery, and Policy in Healthcare    MSHI 505 Advanced Health Informatics II   Or DSIM 518 Competing through Innovation, Analytics & Information Technology MGT 587 Special Topics in Management ACCT 509 Essentials of Accounting DSIM 509 Essentials of Quantitative Methods ECON 509 Essentials of Economics FIN 509 Essentials of Finance 
			FinTech MBA Concentration
		 FIN 610 Practicum in Portfolio Management DSIM 605 Applied Data Management FIN 611 Advanced Portfolio Theory & Practice FIN 612 Investment Management DSIM 602 Introduction to Applied Business Analyt DSIM 603 Applied Statistical Modeling and Analys DSIM 606 Data Mining and Predictive Analytics FIN 587 Special Topics in Finance FIN 590 Internship Curr Prac Training  MBA 651 Blockchain 
			Management
		 MGT 610 Strategic Human Resource Management MGT 620 Responsible Leadership 
			Portfolio Management
		 FIN 610 Practicum in Portfolio Management FIN 611 Advanced Portfolio Theory & Practice FIN 612 Investment Management NOTE: Students pursuing the Portfolio Management concentration who also wish to pursue the Accounting and Finance concentration may not “double count” FIN 610.  
			MBA Customized Professional
		  XXX-XXX  XXXXXXXX  XXX-XXX  XXXXXXXX  XXX-XXX  XXXXXXXX","
	Marine Science
 Jacksonville University’s Master of Science in Marine Science, and Master of Arts in Marine Science (MS/MA in MSC), and Master of Science in Marine Studies (MS in MST) degree programs are designed to provide its graduates with the specific knowledge and skills necessary to be successful in a variety of marine-related positions in industry, government and education, as well as, for entry into doctoral marine science programs. The MS/MA in MSC programs emphasize a hands-on approach to learning through either the completion of an original thesis project under the mentorship of an experienced marine science researcher, or a non-thesis option that requires extensive laboratory/field study. The MS in MST program offers a fully-distanced option providing flexibility and accessibility to a greater number of students. The graduate program continues the undergraduate emphasis on individualized programs of study that ensure students the best possible preparation based on their interests, background and abilities.  Marine Science faculty and researchers currently work in many fields critical to the understanding and sustainable
use of marine resources and systems including aquaculture, benthic ecology, marine and estuarine ecology, coral reef ecology, environmental chemistry, phycology, environmental microbiology, toxicology, marine mammal physiology, invertebrate zoology and ichthyology.   The program is designed to be completed in two to three years for full-time graduate students with 30 credit hours required within all 3 degree programs which includes a core four-course sequence.  For the MS in MSC degree students must complete a successful thesis project based on original research with a public defense and approved by a thesis committee.  For the MA in MSC degree, student must complete either two field/laboratory courses selected in conjunction with their graduate advisor or two field/ laboratory-based courses in accelerated summer sessions.  For the MS in MST degree students must complete a 6-credit hour capstone sequence with an original capstone research project in their final year of study. Both the MA in MSC and MS in MST degrees require the passing of a comprehensive written exam to be taken at the completion of all coursework. State-of-the-art research and laboratory facilities at the Marine Science Research Institute will be utilized, with opportunities to conduct research at other facilities also possible. Admissions Requirements Students eligible to take 500-level courses or any courses for graduate credit are: Students who have been admitted to the MS/MA in Marine Science or MS in Marine Studies Program of Jacksonville University. Students who hold a master's degree from a regionally accredited institution. Students who hold a bachelor's degree from a regionally accredited college or university and who are not presently seeking a degree. These students should apply as non-degree
    A baccalaureate degree is required. GRE scores, letters of recommendation, and undergraduate transcripts will be utilized for admissions purposes. It is expected that the majority of entering students will have a degree in the natural sciences. Regardless, strong preparation in the basic sciences (chemistry, physics, and biology) and mathematics is required. Students with academic deficiencies may be admitted so long as they enroll in appropriate undergraduate courses (determined by the Faculty) as needed.
     A baccalaureate degree is required. GRE scores, letters of recommendation, and undergraduate transcripts will be utilized for admissions purposes. It is expected that the majority of entering students will have a degree in the natural sciences. Regardless, strong preparation in the basic sciences (chemistry, physics, and biology) and mathematics is required. Students with academic deficiencies may be admitted so long as they enroll in appropriate undergraduate courses (determined by the Faculty) as needed. Non-degree seeking students with the proper preparation may enroll in courses for the purpose of professional development. See the Admission section of this catalog for more information. A completed graduate admission application form is required. In addition to all program admission requirements listed above, all international student applicants must also meet the JU Admissions requirements as outlined under International Students in the Admissions section of the catalog Degree Requirements Program is designed to be completed in approximately two-years to three years of full-time study with 30 semester hours, including a four course sequence, but may be completed in a part-time manner if done within seven years of starting first graduate course. Only six semester hours of marine science-related graduate work can be transferred from another regionally accredited institution and applied to the graduate programs in Marine Science and Marine Studies at JU. All graduate students shall successfully complete 30 semester hours with a grade of ""B"" (3.0) or better in each course. Depending on the specific degree desired, students will complete either a comprehensive exam (MA in MSC; MS in MST) with required laboratory course work (MA in MSC degree) or capstone sequence (MS in MST) or a written thesis project with an oral defense (MS in MSC degree). All students admitted to the MA/MS degree programs shall maintain continuous enrollment in the graduate program until all degree requirements are met. If a student receives lower than a ""B"" in a core course, the student may retake one course. Two courses with grades below “B” (3.0) can result in the student being removed from the graduate program. Students are encouraged to complete their degree requirements within three years. Probation and Dismissal A graduate student will be placed on Academic Probation at the conclusion of any semester in which the student’s cumulative GPA is less than a 3.0 (B). The student has the following one semester (or two courses) to raise the cumulative GPA to a 3.0. A graduate student will be dismissed from the program if the student does not raise the cumulative GPA to a 3.0 within one semester (or two courses) of being placed on Academic Probation. A graduate student placed on Academic Probation more than one time during the program will be dismissed from the program. A graduate student earning one grade of “F” in any graduate course will be dismissed from the program. Program Requirements Requirements for the MS degree in Marine Science: Four-course core: MSC 501, MSC 502, MSC 503 and MSC 504. A thesis proposal approved by the student’s thesis committee. The Thesis Committee will be composed of minimum of three individuals, including the Student’s Thesis Advisor and two other members, one of which may be from outside the Department or University. An oral thesis defense must be completed in the form of a seminar open to the general public. The student’s thesis committee must be present, may require further oral questioning after the seminar, and will evaluate the success of the presentation. The MS degree will be approved upon submission of a final written thesis approved by the Student’s Thesis Committee. A total of 30 semester hours graduate-level work (500 or above) with approval of the student’s graduate advisor. Up to 6 semester hours of coursework may be taken as thesis preparation/research and up to 6 semester hours of coursework may be completed in an online setting if seats are available in
    online sections. Core courses should be taken in the in-person setting. Program Requirements Requirements for the MA degree in Marine Science: Four-course core: MSC 501, MSC 502, MSC 503 and MSC 504. A total of 30 semester hours graduate-level work (500 or above) with approval of the student’s graduate advisor. For six of the 30 semester hours, choose one of the following two options:
     A field and/or laboratory experience of not less than six semester hours approved by the graduate advisor.
        Six credit hours of residential summer, intensive field or laboratory experience taken as MSC 595 (3 weeks, 3 SH) and MSC 695 (3 weeks, 3 SH) to be completed over one or two summer periods.
      A field and/or laboratory experience of not less than six semester hours approved by the graduate advisor. Six credit hours of residential summer, intensive field or laboratory experience taken as MSC 595 (3 weeks, 3 SH) and MSC 695 (3 weeks, 3 SH) to be completed over one or two summer periods. A written comprehensive examination to be taken at the completion of all degree coursework. The remaining 24 semester hours may be fulfilled with completion of courses offered in an online or in-person setting, or a combination of both. We are now offering a low-residency option for students in our MA in MSC program. This option allows students to take up to 24 credit hours of the degree online. The only credits that will need to be taken in person are the six credit hours of field/lab experience. Students will have the option to take these in-person lab courses during the traditional 14-week semester or in three-week accelerated summer sessions (in one or two sessions). Accelerated Bachelor of Science to Master of Arts Marine Science Program Master of Science in Marine Studies","
		Master of Science Degree in Health Informatics
	 The Brooks Rehabilitation College of Healthcare Sciences now offers the Master of Science (MS) in Health Informatics. Federal regulations requiring healthcare organizations to uphold secure electronic patient records have increased the employment opportunities in Health Informatics. Assessment and treatment data outcomes indicate supply of healthcare information professionals is not currently meeting demand, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Successful implementation of this educational track combines a mix of health sciences, management and organizational education courses. This focus will emphasize special training and experience in health care related industry. The primary outcome is to develop a workforce that understands how to drive efficient workflow and operational processes to support efficient, cost effective, and safe patient care. The MSHI program will serve both clinical and non-clinical professions in this industry whereby knowledge and proficiency are required to stay competitive in the areas of healthcare leadership, system theory and patient care. Program Requirements The Master of Science Health Informatics degree will define how health information is captured, analyzed, transmitted and managed. The program requires 33 credit hours post bachelor’s degree. Prospective students will come from a variety of education backgrounds, including, but not limited to, health information management, nursing, radiology, patient financial services, health care government agencies, clinical and administrative decision support, computing services, and pharmacy. Employment opportunities upon completion would include a variety of challenging prospects, including, hospitals, clinics, health information exchanges, elevated managerial roles, system development, project management, electronic health record system specialists, clinical decision support, database administrators, clinical documentation specialists, and consultants. Students/professionals seeking a MSHI will understand the relationship between information technology, people, health, and the health-care system. The student will gain the knowledge and skills needed to use information technology to improve health-care delivery and outcomes. 
			Master of Science in Health Informatics Requirements
		 The Master of Science in Health Informatics degree requires a minimum of 33 graduate credit hours. 
			Students must complete all 30 credit hours of the core courses listed below as well as choose one three-credit hour capstone option:
		 MSHI 500 Advanced Health Informatics I MSHI 501 Advanced Coding and Classification MSHI 503 Advanced Cyber Security MSHI 504 Advanced Systems Analysis MSHI 505 Advanced Health Informatics II MSHI 506 Advanced Hleath Care Database Management MSHI 524 Epidemiology and Evidence-Based Health MSHI 525 Key Standards in the Health Care Indust MSHI 526 Legal and Social Issues in Health Infor MSHI 528 Leadership in the Health Profession Students must complete a minimum of three credit hours of capstone to satisfy the degree requirements.  MSHI 540 Capstone MSHI Program Co-Requisites: Students who do not have a medical background will be required to take a three-credit hour MSHI 202 Medical Terminology and Healthcare Essential prior to completing their third course in the program. Students who do not have evidence of completing an undergraduate course in statistics will be required to take MATH 205 Elementary Statistics prior to completing their third course in the program.","
		Master of Fine Arts in Choreography
	 The Masters of Fine Arts in Choreography offers students the opportunity to explore dance history, theory and criticism in depth along with a hands-on introduction to production. This combination of theoretical study with production experience gives students a unique understanding of how dance creates meaning. Admission Requirements For a list of admission requirements to the MFA program, see Graduate Program - MFA in Dance Admission in the Admission section of this Catalog. 
			Program Requirements
		 The MFA degree is a low-residency, 60-unit plan of study emphasizing choreography and the creative process of generating new works that are grounded in both classical and contemporary dance genres. This degree is geared toward artists in transition from significant performance careers into choreographic and teaching careers. The MFA at JU nurtures the development of more rigorous and refined relationships between three aspects of creative production: stimulus, practice and analysis are seen as mutually interdependent forces that continually shape artistic experimentation and response. 
			Program required courses:
		 DANC 500 Graduate Seminar DANC 514 Examining Practice I DANC 516 Examining Practice II DANC 517 Dance History,theory and Criticism I DANC 518 Dance History, Theory and Criticism II DANC 519 Examining Practice III DANC 520 Contemporary Body Practices DANC 523 Creative Synergies DANC 524 Body Politics DANC 530 Intermedia I DANC 531 Intermedia II DANC 534 Research and Development DANC 535 Pedagogy I DANC 536 Pedagogy II DANC 549 Examining Practice IV DANC 550 Research-Based Project/Thesis DANC 551 Advanced Practicum DANC 580 Portfolio 
			Additional studies in dance:
		 DANC 500 Graduate Seminar DANC 520 Contemporary Body Practices Degree Requirements The Master of Fine Arts program requires the equivalent of at least two (2) years of full-time graduate study, with a minimum of 60 semester credit hours. The low-residency format would consist each year of one (1) six-week Summer intensive term and two (2) semesters of hybrid/distance instruction with sequential courses and degree development
over the two year program. Transfer of Credit - Transfer of Credit will not be allowed in the graduate curriculum. Policies - Policies are clearly published on the program and University web sites and Academic Catalog. Transcript Evidence - Consistent with graduation requirements and verified by the University registrar prior to the degree being granted from the program. Thesis Requirement - The thesis is a research project that is comprised of two components, the submission of choreographic research/practice and a supportive exegesis. During the Summer II intensive, the student will submit a 3-4 page proposal for the research project to be approved by the Review Panel that is comprised of the department of dance faculty. The research process aims to engage students in a sustained enterprise, providing the opportunity to build on and develop skills and knowledge gained in the program. The work in Term 5 in DANC550 Research-Based Project/Thesis focuses on the process of practice-as-research. During Term 5 Students will build committees to support their research, committees will include 3-4 individuals that must be
approved by the course professor. The research within DANC550 Research-Based Project/Thesis is intended to be a substantial research process that reflects the depth of study, in which students are expected to operate autonomously supported by a supervisor (course professor).The focus of DANC 551 Advanced Practicum in Term 6 is on the final research, final presentation of practice, collation of the documentation and submission of final exegesis. The outcome(s) of the process constitutes the work in DANC551 Advanced Practicum. The final form of the research project submission will depend on the student’s focus but it must include two components, the submission of choreographic research/practice and a supportive exegesis. Upon final submission of the research project, the Review Panel may elect to have the MFA candidate complete an oral defense of the thesis. If the student’s research project is not submitted in Term 6 the student must enroll in DANC 560 each subsequent semester until the completion of the research project. Faculty will periodically review individual student progress in meeting course goals and completing the research project. Choreographic Research/Practice - The choreographic research/practice will include elements shown within a public context (for example: theatre performance, lecture-demonstration, video project screened in a public setting, installation). Normally a theatre presentation event is of 20-30 minutes duration; a lecture/demonstration approximately 30 minutes. Other forms such as video-dance, electronic events and installations will depend on the specific parameters of the research and must be approved as part of the research proposal. Exegesis - The practical elements will be supported by an exegesis elucidating the interconnections between concepts and practice throughout the process into performance and in performance, as well as, serving as an archive of the project overall. The Exegesis, not including the bibliography, will be a substantial document of approximately 60-100 pages. Academic Standards A graduate student will be placed on Academic Probation at the conclusion of any semester in which the student’s cumulative GPA is less than a 3.0 (B). The student has the following one semester (or two courses) to raise the cumulative GPA to a 3.0. A graduate student will be dismissed from the program if the student does not raise the cumulative GPA to a 3.0 within one semester (or two courses) of being placed on Academic Probation. A graduate student placed on Academic Probation more than one time during the program will be dismissed from the program. A graduate student earning one grade of “F” in any graduate course will be dismissed from the program.","students faculty/staff alumni families apply visit give 
                                 FAU Home
                               
                                 Registrar
                               
                                 University Catalog 
                               
                                 FAU Catalog
                               Degree Requirements Overview Schedule Advising Course Schedule Non-Degree Registration Dual Enrollment Excess Hours Surcharge Florida Shines Transient Issues & Solutions FAQs Holds Orientation Turbo Vote Overview Eligibility Diplomas Ceremony Academic Attire Tickets Grad Survey Degree Audit Webcast Portrait & Keepsakes Apostille Seal Enrollment Verification FERPA Forms Final Exam Grades Transcripts Overview Overview Office Hours Feedback GENERAL INFORMATIONIntroduction to FAUGeneral InformationAcademic CalendarAcademic Policies and RegulationsAdmissionsAppendicesCampus MapsDegree ProgramsDegree RequirementsFaculty and AdministrationFinancial Assistance OpportunitiesPrograms for Enrichment and SpecializationRegistration and RecordsStudent Services and ActivitiesTuition, Fees and RefundsACADEMIC PROGRAMSCOURSE DESCRIPTIONS Introduction to FAU General Information Academic Calendar Academic Policies and Regulations Admissions Appendices Campus Maps Degree Programs Degree Requirements Faculty and Administration Financial Assistance Opportunities Programs for Enrichment and Specialization Registration and Records Student Services and Activities Tuition, Fees and Refunds ACADEMIC PROGRAMS COURSE DESCRIPTIONS DEGREE REQUIREMENTS 
                                                      Degree Requirements
                                                    
                                                      Associate in Arts
                                                    
                                                      Baccalaureate
                                                    
                                                      Second Baccalaureate
                                                    
                                                      Minors
                                                    
                                                      Combined Programs
                                                    
                                                      Master's
                                                    
                                                      Second Master's
                                                    
                                                      Doctoral
                                                    
                                                      Second Doctoral
                                                    
                                                      Undergraduate Studies, Office of the Dean
                                                    
                                                      Advising Services
                                                    
                                                      Application for Degree
                                                    
                                                      Civic Literacy Requirement
                                                    
                                                      Foreign Language Requirement
                                                    
                                                      Foundational Course Requirement
                                                    
                                                      Gordon Rule (Writing Across Curriculum and Computation Skills)
                                                    
                                                      Intellectual Foundations Program (General Education Curriculum)
                                                    
                                                      Lower-Division College Requirements/Recommended Courses
                                                    
                                                      Math Placement
                                                    
                                                      Substitute Courses for ENC 1102
                                                    
                                                      Undergraduate Research
                                                       Students assume all responsibility for all graduation requirements. Undergraduate Studies, Office of the Dean The Undergraduate Studies Office is headed by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies who reports directly to the University Provost and Chief Academic Officer.Under the supervision of the Dean, a number of academic support services make major contributions to the enhancement of the undergraduate experience. They include University Advising Services, Academic Coaching and Career Enhancement for Student Success (ACCESS), Jupiter Advising Services (Academic Advising, Coaching and Transfer Services), the Center for Teaching and Learning (Center for Learning and Student Success, Science Learning Center, University Center for Excellence in Writing, Math Learning Center, Learning Assistant Program, eSuccess, and Scholarship of Teaching), Office of Undergraduate Research and Inquiry, Prestigious Fellowships, Scholars Program, Student-Athlete Success Center, Testing and Certification, Office of Academic Success Initiatives, University Honors Program, Honors-in-the-Major Program and Writing Across the Curriculum. Students should plan their degree program in consultation with their advisor. For planning purposes, it is important to read this Degree Requirements section carefully and to refer questions to the advisor or other appropriate offices. Many of the degree requirements described are most conveniently satisfied during the lower division (prior to the student's completion of 60 credits). When planning their lower-division program, students should consider the Intellectual Foundations Program (general education) requirements and others, such as the Writing Across Curriculum (Gordon Rule) and Gordon Rule Computation Skills as described in this section, the college requirements for their major as described in this section and their major college requirements as described in the appropriate college section. University Advising Services The academic advising philosophy for University Advising Services  (UAS) is based on the Appreciative Advising model. It is the intentional collaborative practice of asking positive, open-ended questions that help students optimize their educational experience, achieve their dreams and goals and reach their potential. The student and advisor, as partners, work together to discover the student's passion and dreams, design a plan to achieve those dreams, deliver on that plan and make changes as necessary to achieve their goals.  The primary focus for  UAS  is first- and second-year students. UAS provides a safety net for these students when they are not sure where to go for assistance. In support of this mission, the UAS office offers a comprehensive array of services aimed at helping students develop and implement an appropriate and meaningful education plan. UAS provides: Advising and course selection for all undecided/exploratory students regardless of number of earned credits; Support services for students not in good academic standing with up to 60 earned credits; Support services for students with fewer than 60 earned credits (freshmen and sophomores); Pre-Law Advising and Support (PLUS) Program; Educate Tomorrow at FAU (ET @ FAU) for former foster youth and homeless students; First Generation Advising and Support (First and Proud); Intellectual Foundations Program (IFP) evaluations and substitutions; Academic support and resources for FAU High School, dual enrolled, early admission and non-degree students. 
                                          Note: Referrals to specific college advising offices are made after three semesters and/or 45 earned credits for those students who have declared majors and are in good academic standing.All program activities and services offered by  University Advising Services  are aimed at aiding students in developing and implementing an appropriate and meaningful educational plan. For information, visit the  University Advising Services website or call 561-297-3064. 
                                          Special Topics in Undergraduate Studies (IDS 2932) 1-4 credits
                                          Special topics of interest to undergraduate students. Special Topics in Undergraduate Studies (IDS 2933) 0 credit
                                          Special topics of interest to undergraduate students. Grading: S/U 
                                             
                                          RI: Professional Capstone (IDS 4894) 1-4 credits
                                          Prerequisite: Permission of department
                                          Students complete a culminating product/performance that is reflective of applied expertise gained in the competency areas of their undergraduate studies with a focus on demonstrating academic program reflections and career readiness. This course is intended to be taken in the semester of graduation. This is a Research-Intensive (RI) course.  
                                          Special Topics in Undergraduate Studies (IDS 4931) 0 credits
                                          Special topics of interest to undergraduate students. Grading: S/U  
                                          Special Topics in Undergraduate Studies (IDS 4932) 1-4 credits
                                          Special topics of interest to undergraduate students. 
                                          Career and Life Planning (SLS 1301) 1 credit
                                          Offered by the FAU Career Center and taught by nationally certified career counselors, this course provides an overview of career development theories and decision-making skills for career/life planning. It focuses on self-assessment, choosing a major, exploring career paths and developing an action plan to help achieve career goals. The course also provides strong emphasis on the development of presentation, oral and written communication skills as essential skills for any future major/career.Note:  All freshmen as well as transfer students entering without an A.A degree who have not declared a major or pre-major by the end of their first semester at FAU (excluding summer terms) will be required to enroll in this course in their second semester. FAU iSucceed: College Success Strategies (SLS 1410) 0 credit
                                          Prerequisite: Admission as an FTIC student who enrolls at FAU through Jump Start or similar admissions pathway programs
                                          This course is designed to develop the skills and build the self-awareness students need to make a successful transition to the university. Based on positive psychology and learning theory, class activities encourage students to reflect on how they learn, their strengths and curricular and co-curricular planning and opportunities to support their academic and career goals. Grading: S/U
                                        
                                          First-Year Interest Group Experience (SLS 1411) 1 credit
                                          Prerequisites: Admission as an FTIC student who enrolls at FAU for the fall semester  
                                          This is a themed seminar course where students experience the academic culture and get connected to their specific college. Students investigate hot topics and trends in their majors, participate in learning opportunities that build relationships, skills and knowledge that contribute to their academic and career success and reflect on how their personal interests and majors play roles in the FAU scholarly community. Grading: S/U   
                                        
                                          The Learning Community Experience (SLS 1412) 0 credit
                                          The Learning Community experience combines student academic learning in and out of the classroom through activities, both discipline- and interdisciplinary-specific. Based on Student Development Theory, students participate in a variety of programs, workshops and events and reflect on their relevance to enhancing the students' overall college experience. Grading: S/U
                                        
                                          The Learning Community Experience Part 2 (SLS 1413) 0 credit
                                          Prerequisite: SLS 1412
                                          This course provides students with additional opportunities to engage in activities and programs to support the Learning Community Education model. Based on Student Development Theory, students participate in a variety of programs, workshops and events, and reflect upon their relevance to the enhancement of their overall college experience while they are concluding their first college year. Grading S/U
                                          
                                             
                                          The Learning Community Student Leader Experience (SLS 1414) 0 credit
                                          Prerequisites: SLS 1412, SLS 1413
                                          This course prepares students, called Learning Community Liaisons, to serve as mentors to those students who are in the Learning Community program for their freshman year at Florida Atlantic University. Grading S/U
                                          
                                             
                                        
                                          Honors Introduction to Academic Life (SLS 1501) 2 credits
                                          Required for first-year students in the University Honors Program, this course is designed to increase the students' success in college by assisting them in obtaining the knowledge and skills necessary to reach their educational objectives. Topics include the nature of postsecondary education, time management, test-taking, communication skills, study techniques, question-asking skills, and library use. This is an Academic Service Learning (ASL) course. 
                                          Learning Strategies and Human Development (SLS 1503) 2 credits
                                          Designed to assist students in making the transition into higher education. Topics include time management, test-taking skills, learning strategies and styles, diversity, short- and long-term planning, developing analytical and critical thinking skills, relationships and campus resources. 
                                          Special Topics in Student Success (SLS 1931) 0-3 credits
                                          This course permits Undergraduate Studies to pilot new courses to support specific student populations and programs as identified to increase student learning, development, engagement and outcomes pertaining to retention and academic success. Grading: S/U
                                        
                                          Special Topics in Student Learning and Development (SLS 2932) 0-3 credits
                                          This course permits Undergraduate Studies to pilot new courses to support specific student populations and programs as identified to increase student learning, development, engagement and outcomes pertaining to retention and academic success. 
                                          Foundations for Personal Academic and Professional Development (SLS 3115) 3 credits
                                          Prerequisite: Permission of department
                                          This course is designed to prepare transfer students to successfully transition into higher education and make informed decisions about their educational and professional development. Students cultivate and apply skills essential to meeting the scholastic expectations of a four-year university such as critical thinking, oral/written communication, time management, test-taking, learning strategies, financial literacy, digital citizenship, using campus resources and professional workplace competence. To recognize undergraduate students’ excellence in undergraduate research, the Office of Undergraduate Research and Inquiry (OURI) offers the Undergraduate Research Certificate. Requirements for the research certificate include completion of 12 credits of research exposure, skill-building and intensive courses as well as dissemination of the outcomes of student research and inquiry through a research presentation or exhibition. The Undergraduate Research Curriculum Committee determines any course or dissemination substitutions toward the certificate. OURI offers the following Interdisciplinary course to facilitate tracking of student dissemination. 
                                          Undergraduate Research Forum (IDS 4914) 0 credit
                                          Prerequisite: Permission of instructor
                                          This is a zero-credit course for students who are accepted to present at any of FAU's undergraduate research symposia or approved external research symposia/exhibitions. Grading: S/U
                                        OURI was created to expand the culture of undergraduate research and inquiry at all FAU campuses, and includes four main goals: 1) Integrating a research and inquiry focus into the curriculum; 2) Expanding co-curricular opportunities for students and faculty to engage in the participation and dissemination of research activities; 3) Rewarding and recognizing faculty and students who are active scholars; 4) Enhancing the climate and culture to support all research and inquiry initiatives at FAU. These efforts recently paid off when FAU was named one of three recipients of the Council on Undergraduate Research Award for Undergraduate Research Accomplishments. The national award recognizes institutions that have developed exemplary programs that provide high-quality research, scholarship and creative experiences for undergraduates. For more information regarding the undergraduate research and inquiry opportunities available, visit the OURI website.
                                           To earn an Associate in Arts degree from FAU, students must be degree-seeking and: Earn a minimum of 60 credits in academic courses acceptable toward the degree with at least a cumulative 2.0 FAU GPA. Earn a minimum of 40 of the 60 credits at the lower-division (1000-2000) level as indicated by the Statewide Course Numbering System (SCNS) designations or their equivalents. Earn a minimum of 30 of the 40 lower-division (1000-2000) credits at FAU. (This may be waived for students who transfer more than 30 lower-division degree-applicable credits from a single Florida public state college.) Earn a minimum of 30 of the 60 credits in residence at FAU and complete the last semester in residence at FAU. Apply no more than 30 credits of non-traditional credit toward the degree earned through Advanced Placement (AP), College Level Examination Program (CLEP), Correspondence Courses, International Baccalaureate (IB) or Military Service Schools, subject to limits for each as stated in the Academic Policies and Regulations section of this catalog. Credits earned in this manner will be considered transfer credits. Fulfill the Intellectual Foundations Program requirements. Satisfy the Writing Across Curriculum (Gordon Rule) and Gordon Rule Computation Skills requirements (see explanation elsewhere in this section). Meet the Foreign Language Entrance Requirement (FLENT). Complete  the Florida Civic Literacy Requirement (for students who initially entered a Florida college system institution or a state university in fall 2018 and thereafter). Submit an Associate in Arts degree application to University Advising Services (see the Application for Degree 
                                             explanation elsewhere in this section).
                                           Students may not receive an A.A. degree from both FAU and the home Florida College System (FCS) institution.   Students may apply for an Associate in Arts degree in one of two ways: Associate in Arts degree awarded at FAU. Associate in Arts degree awarded to FCS transfer students by the awarding FCS institution through the reverse transfer of credit earned at FAU. FAU will notify students who transfer more than 30 credits from a single Florida College System institution about being eligible to receive an Associate in Arts degree at their home FCS institution 
                                          Note: After completing all requirements for the Associate in Arts degree, students may apply for the A.A. degree in any semester prior to the semester in which their baccalaureate degree is awarded. If students do not complete the requirements for their baccalaureate degree, they must request their Associate in Arts degree within five (5) years of completing all requirements for that degree. Non-degree students and students who have already earned an A.A. degree may not apply for the A.A. degree at FAU. Additionally, students with an ""I"" (incomplete grade) or ""NR"" (no reported grade) on their transcripts may not apply for the A.A. degree until the ""I"" and/or ""NR"" grades  are removed.
                                             
                                        To earn a baccalaureate degree, students must: Earn a minimum of 120 credits in academic courses acceptable toward the degree (some programs require more than 120 credits). Attain a minimum 2.0 grade point average in the courses required for a major program at FAU. Earn a minimum of 45 of these 120 credits at the upper division as indicated by the Statewide Course Numbering System (SCNS) designations or their equivalents. In some programs, graduate-level courses may be used to satisfy undergraduate requirements; however, no undergraduate will be required to take a graduate-level course as part of a normal degree requirement. Apply no more than 60 credits of non-traditional credit toward the degree earned through Credit by Exam, Correspondence Courses   and Military Service Schools,  subject to  credit  limits for each  as stated in the  Academic Policies and Regulations section of this catalog. Credits earned in this manner will be considered transfer credits. Earn the last 30 upper-division credits in residence at FAU. In programs requiring more than 120 credits, at least 25 percent of the total number of credits required for the degree must be earned in residence at FAU. Earn at least 75 percent of all upper-division credits  required for  the major from FAU. Some majors  may require more than 75 percent. Consult the degree requirements section of the major for details. Fulfill the Intellectual Foundations Program requirements. Summer Credit Requirement:   Earn a minimum of 9 credits by attending one or more summer terms at either FAU or another university in the Florida State University System. This requirement applies only to students admitted to FAU as freshmen or as transfer students with fewer than 60 credits  (Florida Board of Governors Regulation 6.016). (For those students enrolled before fall 2011, credits earned and transferred through the Advanced International Certificate in Education (AICE) Program, Advanced Placement (AP) Program, College Level Examination Program (CLEP), Dual Enrollment (DE) Program or International Baccalaureate (IB) Program may be applied toward the 9-credit summer requirement, thereby reducing students' summer credit requirement total.) Satisfy the Writing Across Curriculum (Gordon Rule) and Gordon Rule  Computation Skills  requirements (see explanation elsewhere in this section). Fulfill the admission and graduation requirements of the department and college granting the degree as described following the Lower-Division College and Department Requirements (explanation elsewhere in this section). Fulfill the foreign language graduation requirement. This requirement applies to all B.S. degree programs (unless otherwise specified) and to all B.A. degree programs. Other select degrees may require the foreign language graduation requirement (for more information, please refer to the specific degree program requirements). Submit an Application for Degree form (see Application for Degree explanation elsewhere in this section). 
                                          Academic Learning Compacts
                                          In compliance with Policy Guideline 05.02.15 as approved by the Chancellor of the State University System, Florida Board of Governors Office, FAU will provide students access to information about Academic Learning Compacts for each baccalaureate degree program. The Academic Learning Compact for each program identifies 1) content/discipline knowledge and skills, 2) communication skills and 3) critical thinking skills students in that program are expected to demonstrate prior to graduation and the methods by which students will be assessed on these skills. Students may obtain print copies of Academic Learning Compacts for each baccalaureate degree program by contacting the appropriate program or department.   Second Baccalaureate Degree Requirements To earn a second baccalaureate degree, students must: Earn a minimum of 30 credits in residence at FAU beyond those required for the first degree. Students earning two degrees simultaneously (a ""dual degree"") must earn at least 150 credits. Earn at least 75 percent of all upper-division credits  required for  the major from FAU. Some majors  may require more than 75 percent. Consult the degree requirements section of the major for details. Satisfy the admission and graduation requirements of the department and college granting the second degree as described under the heading Lower-Division College and Department Requirements (explanation elsewhere in this section). Students who have received a bachelor's degree from a four-year accredited institution of higher education will be deemed as having met the FAU general education requirements. Students must meet the foreign language requirement, however, if required for one of the two degrees. Submit an Application for Degree form (see Application for Degree elsewhere in this section). Minor Requirements In addition to pursuing a major, students may declare no more than two minors. Students must earn at least 75 percent of all credits required for the minor from FAU. Some departments may require more than 75 percent. A list of available minors appears in the Degree Programs section of this catalog. The descriptions and requirements for each minor are listed under the Academic Programs link within the college in which the minors are offered.Note:  To ensure a timely graduation, students may pursue a minor only if requirements for that minor can be completed without extending the anticipated graduation date. Please refer to the Timely Graduation Policy for credit requirement thresholds to declare a minor. 
                                          (for students matriculating in fall 2009 and later)
                                          FAU believes that higher education should go well beyond the preparation of individuals for demanding careers in their chosen fields. It should also provide broad intellectual enrichment through systematic exposure to a diversity of academic experiences. The purpose of the general education curriculum in this endeavor is to develop the intellectual skills, habits of thought, ethical values and love of learning that transcend the choice of major. These are the hallmarks of educated  individuals  capable of meeting effectively the social, political and economic challenges of contemporary life. Perhaps at no other time in history has a well-rounded, inquiring intellect been more important and useful than in the world of rapid technological change and ever increasing globalization in which we now live. Thus, the mission of a comprehensive university education is to produce graduates who can intelligently analyze information, appreciate diverse peoples and ideas and adapt to change through the self-motivated acquisition of new knowledge.Consequently, the FAU general education curriculum is a carefully devised program that draws on many subject areas to provide and reinforce essential skills and values from different points of view. It equips students with the academic tools they will need to succeed, not only as undergraduates in their degree programs, but also as responsible citizens in a complex world. The courses that comprise the FAU general education curriculum combine to develop: Substantive knowledge and/or skills in a breadth of foundation areas; The ability to think critically; The ability to communicate effectively; A critical understanding of issues relating to diversity, equity and inclusion in U.S. society. Students are invited to select from a number of courses, all at the lower-division level, in completing their general education requirements. All of the courses contribute to meeting the overall goals of the general education curriculum, thereby allowing flexibility in making individual choices. Students must complete a minimum of 36 credits of general education coursework, distributed as indicated in the six categories below or through the Thematic Clusters Option.Students who enter FAU without an Associate in Arts (A.A.) degree from a Florida state school must fulfill the University's general education requirements as described below. A course may be used to simultaneously satisfy a general education curriculum requirement and a requirement of the student's major program. All course selections should be made in consultation with an advisor.For students who enter FAU holding the Associate in Science (A.S.) degree from a Florida public community or state college: The Associate in Science degree prepares students for entry into employment, but it is also a transfer degree and basis for admission to a related baccalaureate degree program at FAU. Courses taken as part of the Associate in Science degree at a Florida public community or state college to meet the general education requirements will transfer and apply toward the thirty-six (36) general education credits required for the baccalaureate degree at FAU. Since Associate in Science degrees typically require 15 credits of general education coursework, students must complete an additional 21 credits of general education coursework at FAU.Link to Foundations of Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning
                                          Link to Foundations of Science and the Natural World
                                          Link to Foundations of Society and Human Behavior
                                          Link to Foundations of Global Citizenship
                                          Link to Foundations of Humanities
                                          Link to Thematic Clusters Option
                                        
                                          I. Foundations of Written Communication
                                          (6 credits required; a grade of ""C"" or higher required in each course)
                                          Learning to communicate effectively is much more than putting thoughts and ideas into words. Writing, in particular, allows us to develop and organize our thoughts and ideas in intelligible and meaningful ways. Effective communication involves the examination of evidence, the development of ideas and the clear expression of those ideas. Communication also involves the application of ethical standards when using words or ideas that are not one's own. Courses that fulfill this requirement are designed not only to develop students' writing skills, but also their ability to think critically—to question habitual ways of thinking, to move beyond obvious responses and to develop new ways to see themselves and the world around them.Students who complete the Written Communication requirement will be able to: Demonstrate effective written communication skills by exhibiting the control of rhetorical elements that include clarity, coherence, comprehensiveness and mechanical correctness; Analyze, interpret and evaluate information to formulate critical conclusions and arguments; Identify and apply standards of academic integrity. 
                                                   
                                                      Foundations of Written Communication Courses
                                                   
                                                   (6 credits required; a grade of ""C"" or higher required in each course)
                                                 Foundations of Written Communication Courses (6 credits required; a grade of ""C"" or higher required in each course) Students must choose two courses from among the following: College Writing 1  (required) ENC 1101 3 College Writing 2 ENC 1102 3 The following courses may be substituted for ENC 1102: University Honors Seminar in Writing ENC 1930 3 Special Topics: College Writing 2 ENC 1939 3 
                                                   Writing History
                                                 Writing History HIS 2050 3 Being Cared For: Reflections from the Other Side of the Bed NSP 1195 3 
                                          Note:  Students must take four Writing Across Curriculum (WAC) courses, two of which must be taken from the Foundations of Written Communication category. 
                                          II. Foundations of Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning
                                          (6 credits required; a grade of ""C"" or higher required in each course)
                                          Mathematics is a peculiarly human endeavor that attempts to organize our experience in a quantitative fashion. It aids and supplements our intuitions about the physical universe and about human behavior.The Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning requirement is intended to give students an appreciation of mathematics and prepare them to think precisely and critically about quantitative problems. Students who satisfy the Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning requirement will be able to: Identify and explain mathematical theories and their applications; Determine and apply appropriate mathematical and/or computational models and methods in problem solving; Display quantitative literacy. 
                                          
                                        
                                                   Foundations of Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning Courses
                                                   (6 credits required; a grade of ""C"" or higher required in each course) Students must take two of the following courses, one of which must be from Group A. The second course may be from Group A or Group B. 
                                                   Group A
                                                 College Algebra MAC 1105 3 Calculus with Analytic Geometry 1 MAC 2311 4 Mathematics for Liberal Arts 1 MGF 1106 3 Mathematics for Liberal Arts 2 MGF 1107 3 Introductory Statistics STA 2023 4 or any mathematics course for which one of the above courses is the direct prerequisite 
                                                   Group B
                                                 Computer Programming and Data Literacyfor Everyone
                                                      
                                                 COP 1031C 3 Trigonometry MAC 1114 3 Precalculus Algebra MAC 1140 3 Precalculus Algebra and Trigonometry MAC 1147 4-5 Introduction to Calculus with Applications MAC 2210 4 Methods of Calculus MAC 2233 3 Life Science Calculus 1 MAC 2241 4 Logic PHI 2102 3 Calculus with Analytic Geometry 2 MAC 2312 4 
                                          III. Foundations of Science and the Natural World
                                          (6 credits required)
                                          Scientific principles are behind what we find in nature and in natural occurrences. Scientific issues, such as those dealing with stem-cell research, cloning and global warming, are hotly debated by policy makers.Courses that meet this requirement share the goal of seeking to understand patterns and principles behind phenomena and occurrences, both in the inorganic world and in the living world. They typically fall within either the physical sciences (astronomy, physics, chemistry and the earth sciences) or the biological sciences.Students who satisfy the Science and the Natural World requirement will be able to:  
                                        Explain important scientific concepts, principles and paradigms; Explain how principles of scientific inquiry and ethical standards are used to develop and investigate research questions; Explain the limits of scientific knowledge and of how scientific knowledge changes; Critically evaluate scientific claims, arguments and methodology. After completion of the associated lab, the student will be able to: Demonstrate and explain how experiments are conducted; Analyze resulting data and draw appropriate conclusions from such data. 
                                                   Foundations of Science and the Natural World Courses
                                                   
                                                      (6 credits required) Students must take two of the following courses, one of which must be from Group A. The second course may be from Group A or Group B. One of the courses must have a lab. 
                                                   Group A
                                                 Introduction to Astronomy AST 2002 3 Life Science (lab available) BSC 1005 2 Biological Principles (lab available) BSC 1010 3 Anatomy and Physiology 1 (lab available) BSC 2085 3 Contemporary Chemical Issues CHM 1020C 3 General Chemistry 1 (lab available) CHM 2045 3 The Blue Planet ESC 2000 3 Environmental Science and Sustainability EVR 1001 3 General Physics 1 (lab available) PHY 2048 4 College Physics 1 PHY 2053 4 or any course in the natural sciences for which one of the above courses is the direct prerequisite 
                                                   Group B
                                                 Introduction to Biological Anthropology(lab available) ANT 2511 3 Biodiversity (lab available) BSC 1011 3 General Chemistry for the Health Sciences(lab available) CHM 2032 3 Engineering Chemistry (lab available) EGN 2095 3 Nature: Intersections of Science, Engineering and the Humanities ETG 2831 3 Physical Geology/Evolution of the Earth GLY 2010C 4 History of the Earth and Life GLY 2100 3 Human Mission to Mars IDS 2382 3 Weather, Climate and Climate Change MET 2010 3 Physical Science PSC 2121 3 
                                          
                                             IV. Foundations of Society and Human Behavior(6 credits required) Courses in this area examine the forces that shape human behavior and societies. The disciplines represented in this foundation area study individuals, groups, societies, cultures, markets and nations. Their scope is broad: the formation of attitudes; how institutions develop, function and change; the forces that transform society and social institutions; how societies change the environment and respond to environmental change; the relationships between individuals and society; and the scope and complexity of systems of race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality and social class.Students who satisfy the Society and Human Behavior requirement will demonstrate the ability to: Describe patterns of human behavior; Describe how political, social, cultural or economic institutions influence human behavior and how humans influence these institutions; Apply appropriate disciplinary methods and/or theories to the analysis of social, cultural, psychological, ethical, political, technological or economic issues or problems.  
                                           
                                                   Foundations of Society and Human Behavior Courses
                                                   (6 credits required) Students must take two of the following courses, one of which must be from Group A. The second course may be from Group A or Group B. 
                                                   Group A
                                                 United States History since 1877 AMH 2020 3 Introduction to Anthropology ANT 2000 3 Macroeconomic Principles ECO 2013 3 Government of the United States POS 2041 3 General Psychology PSY 1012 3 Sociological Perspectives SYG 1000 3 
                                                   Group B
                                                 United States History to 1877 AMH 2010 3 Law, Crime and the Criminal Justice System CCJ 2002 3 Digital Culture DIG 2202 3 Microeconomic Principles  ECO 2023 3 Contemporary Economic Issues ECP 2002 3 Disability and Society EEX 2091 3 Digital Literacy in a Globally Connected World EME 2620 3 Climate Change: The Human Dimensions EVR 1110 3 Environment and Society EVR 2017 3 Introduction to Language LIN 2001 3 Risk, Resilience and Rising Seas (R3) PAD 2081 3 Changing Environment of Business, Society and Government PAD 2258 3 Social Problems SYG 2010 3 Designing the City URP 2051 3   
                                          V. Foundations of Global Citizenship
                                          (6 credits required)
                                          FAU students live in a region that is increasingly diverse as a consequence of immigration and international connections. They live in a world in which individuals, societies and governments are becoming more and more interconnected across national boundaries. To succeed in this world, students must have an understanding of diverse national and regional cultures and interests; they must understand the challenges and necessity of being able to communicate across these diverse cultures; they must understand the global forces that shape societies and nations and the relationships between and among them; they must have an awareness of global connectedness and interdependence, understanding how their actions can affect other people and places. 
                                           Students completing the Global Citizenship requirement will be able to describe the: Origins and consequences of different individual, cultural and national identities; Economic, political, environmental and/or social processes that influence human events across place and time; Causes and consequences of interaction between and among cultures, societies and nations. 
                                           
                                                   Foundations of Global Citizenship Courses
                                                   (6 credits required) Students must choose two courses from among the following: Culture and Society ANT 2410 3 The Educated Citizen in a Global Context EDF 2854 3 World Geography GEA 2000 3 Introduction to World Politics INR 2002 3 Global Jewish Communities JST 2452 3 
                                                   Introduction to Latin American Studies  orHonors Introduction to Caribbean and LatinAmerican Studies(for University Honors Program students only)
                                                         
                                                   
                                                 Introduction to Latin American Studies  orHonors Introduction to Caribbean and LatinAmerican Studies(for University Honors Program students only)
                                                         
                                                    LAS 2000 3 Global Perspectives on Language LIN 2607 3 Culture, Consumers and the Global Marketplace MAR 2142 3 Music in Global Society MUH 2121 3 Global Political Theory POT 2000 3 Global Perspectives of Social Services SOW 1005 3 Race and Cultural Inclusion in Social Work SOW 1130 3 Global Society SYP 2450 3 History of Civilization 1* WOH 2012 3 History of Civilization 2 WOH 2022 3 Gender and Climate Change WST 2351 3 
                                          
                                          * Writing Across Curriculum (Gordon Rule) course; grade of ""C"" or higher required. 
                                          VI. Foundations of Humanities
                                          (6 credits required)
                                          Through literature, the creative and performing arts, philosophy and architecture, individuals and cultures interpret, express and define their values and ideals. They also explore human potential, the human condition and the imagination. Students fulfilling the umanities requirement will: Reflect critically on the human condition; Demonstrate the theory or methods behind forms of human expression.   
                                                   Foundations of Humanities Courses
                                                   (6 credits required) Students must take two of the following courses, one of which must be from Group A. The second course may be from Group A or Group B. 
                                                   Group A
                                                 Art Appreciation ARH 2000 3 History and Appreciation of Music MUL 2010 3 Introduction to Philosophy PHI 2010 3 Appreciation of Theatre THE 2000 3 
                                                   Group B
                                                 Culture and Architecture: The Master Builder ARC 2208 3 Appreciation of Dance DAN 2100 3 Film Appreciation orHonors Film Appreciation(for University Honors Program students only) FIL 2000 3 Racism and Anti-Racism HUM 2471 3 Introduction to World Literature LIT 2100 3 Interpretation of Fiction LIT 2010 3 Interpretation of Poetry LIT 2030 3 Interpretation of Drama LIT 2040 3 Interpretation of Creative Nonfiction LIT 2070 3 Special Topics in Literature LIT 2931 3 Public Speaking SPC 2608 3 
                                          Students assume all responsibility for all graduation requirements. 
                                          Thematic Clusters Option for the Intellectual Foundations Program
                                        Thematic clusters are groups of general education courses selected to address specific themes, such as Climate Change or Evolution, or particular topics or experiences, such as Global Studies or Research and Inquiry. Students can satisfy a portion of their required general education coursework while completing a theme that is of personal or professional interest. Enrolling in an IFP thematic cluster affords students an opportunity to study the topic in-depth from multiple disciplinary perspectives and methods of inquiry. Students gain knowledge and skills related to their intended field of study while acquiring an understanding of the connections among multiple disciplines. In addition, these courses can often be used to satisfy multiple requirements (e.g., major, general education, electives).Students who wish to enroll and complete a thematic cluster should be aware of the following: Thematic clusters involve between 3-6 general education courses. Completing a thematic cluster does not fulfill a student's entire general education requirement. Students must complete any additional required courses outside those taken in the theme. Not all sections of a specific general education course may be applicable to the thematic cluster. Students must be sure to select the section designed for their theme. Students should consult with their advisor if they are unsure. Thematic cluster courses must be taken at FAU to apply. Enrollment in thematic cluster courses is very limited and on a first-come, first-served basis. Some thematic clusters do not work for particular majors. Consult with an advisor in University Advising Services (UAS) before choosing a thematic cluster or enrolling in thematic courses. For more information on available thematic clusters and the list of requirements, course options and offerings, please visit   http://fau.edu/ugstudies/thematic/index.php .Core Curriculum Requirements
                                          (for students matriculating before fall 2009)
                                          A minimum of 36 credits required. 
                                                   Communications Requirement
                                                   (6 credits; two courses; grade of ""C"" or better) College Writing 1* ENC 1101 3 College Writing 2* ENC 1102 3 * Writing Across Curriculum (Gordon Rule) course. 
                                                   Mathematics Requirement  (6 credits; two courses from the following list; grade of ""C"" or better) Math for the Liberal Arts 1* MGF 1106 3 Math for the Liberal Arts 2* MGF 1107 3 College Algebra* MAC 1105 3 Trigonometry*+ MAC 1114 3 Precalculus Algebra*+ MAC 1140 3 Methods of Calculus* MAC 2233 3 Calculus with Analytic Geometry 1*+ MAC 2311 4 Calculus with Analytic Geometry 2* MAC 2312 4 Introductory Statistics* STA 2023 3 Logic* PHI 2102 3 Note:  Students must take at least one course with the prefix MAC or MGF.* Gordon Rule Computation course.+ Requires a passing score on math placement test before registration. 
                                                   Social Sciences Requirement
                                                   (9 credits; three courses from three different disciplines)+ Introduction to Anthropology ANT 2000 3 Culture and Society ANT 2410 3 World Geography GEA 2000 3 Macroeconomic Principles ECO 2013 3 Microeconomic Principles  ECO 2023 3 Contemporary Economic Issues ECP 2002 3 Changing Environment of Society, Business and Government PAD 2258 3 Government of the United States POS 2041 3 Introduction to World Politics INR 2002 3 General Psychology PSY 1012 3 Introductory Sociology SYG 1000 3 Social Problems SYG 2010 3 + The following courses are in the same discipline: ANT 2000 and 2410; ECO 2013, 2023 and ECP 2002; POS 2041 and INR 2002; SYG 1000 and 2010. 
                                                   Humanities Requirement
                                                   (9 credits; two courses from two different disciplines)+ Interpretation of Fiction* LIT 2010 3 Interpretation of Poetry* LIT 2030 3 Interpretation of Drama* LIT 2040 3 Introduction to Philosophy* PHI 2010 3 History of Civilization 1* WOH 2012 3 and one course from the following list:     Culture and Architecture:The Master Builder ARC 2208 3 Art Appreciation ARH 2000 3 History and Appreciation of Music MUL 2010 3 Appreciation of Theatre THE 2000 3 Appreciation of Dance DAN 2100 3 Film Appreciation FIL 2000 3 * Writing Across Curriculum (Gordon Rule) course.+ The following courses are in the same discipline: LIT 2010, 2030 and 2040. 
                                                   Natural Sciences Requirement
                                                   (6 credits; two courses, one with a lab, from two different disciplines; a higher-level science course may be substituted)+ Introduction to Biological Anthropology ANT 2511 &ANT 2511L 3 or 4 Introduction to Astronomy * AST 2002 3 Life Science and Life Science Lab* orLife Science and RI: Life Science Lab BSC 1005 &BSC 1005L 2 or 3 Biological Principles with Lab* BSC 1010 &BSC 1010L 3 or 4 Anatomy and Physiology with Lab BSC 2085 &BSC 2085L 3 or 4 Contemporary Chemical Issues* CHM 1020C 3 General Chemistry for the Health Sciences with Lab CHM 2032 & CHM 2032L 3 or 4 General Chemistry 1 with Lab CHM 2045 & CHM 2045L 3 or 4 The Blue Planet ESC 2000 3 Physical Geology/Evolution of the Earth GLY 2010C 4 The History of the Earth and Life GLY 2100 3 Weather, Climate and Climate Change MET 2010 3 Introduction to Oceanography OCE 2001 3 General Physics 1 PHY 2048 3 College Physics 1 PHY 2053 4 Physical Science* PSC 2121 3 * For non-science majors.+ The following courses are in the same discipline: BSC 1005&L, 1010&L and 2085&L; CHM 1020C, 2032&L, and 2045&L; ESC  2000,  GLY 2010C, GLY 2100 and MET 2010; AST 2002, PHY 2048, PHY 2053 and PSC 2121. 
                                          General Education Requirements for Transfer Students
                                          
                                             Students who have fulfilled all general education requirements from any Florida public community college, state college or university will be considered to have met all the requirements of Florida Atlantic University's Intellectual Foundations Program (see above).Transfer students who matriculate without having met all general education requirements must meet the requirements of the Intellectual Foundations Program. Transfer students matriculating under an existing articulation agreement, however, must meet the requirements outlined in the articulation agreement. Pursuant to Florida Statute 8.006, baccalaureate degree-seeking students initially entering a Florida college system (FCS) institution or a state university system (SUS) institution in fall 2018 and thereafter are required to demonstrate competency in civic literacy. Students are expected to complete this requirement by the end of their first year at FAU. No student may graduate without having met this requirement.
                                             Presently, there are three cohorts of students attending Florida public institutions subject to different Civic Literacy requirements.
                                             
                                          Cohort 1:
                                          Students first entering the SUS or FCS prior to fall 2018 - The Civic Literacy Requirement  does not apply.Cohort 2:
                                          Students first entering the SUS or FCS from fall 2018 to summer (1 and 2) 2021 - Complete a course  or  exam. 
                                          Cohort 3:
                                          Students first entering the SUS or FCS in summer (3) 2021 and thereafter -   Complete  both  a course  and  exam.* * For Cohort 3 students only: High school students who pass the Florida Civic Literacy Examination in high school, which began in fall 2021, are exempt from the postsecondary exam requirement. However, they are still required to successfully complete the course. Certain accelerated mechanisms meet the course requirement (see in the table below.) 
                                                   For Cohorts 2 and 3: Options for meeting the Civic Literacy Requirement
                                                 Options Score Meets Course Competency Meets Exam Competency Courses AMH 2020if taken after fall 2018   (including dual enrollment if taken after fall 2018)
                                                   
                                                      
                                                 
                                                   Passing grade
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                   POS 2041if taken after fall 2018   (including dual enrollment if taken after fall 2018)
                                                 
                                                   Passing grade
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                   Accelerated Mechanisms Advanced Placement (AP): Government and Politics: United States Exam 
                                                   3
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                 Advanced Placement (AP): United States History Exam 
                                                   4
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                 Cambridge AICE: History, U.S. History, c. 1840-1990 (A-Level) Exam 
                                                   A-E
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                   CLEP: American Government Exam 
                                                   50
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                 IB History, History of America Exam 
                                                   5-7
                                                 
                                                   X
                                                   
                                                   Additional Assessments
                                                 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Naturalization Test - Civics(U.S. history and government) with supplemental questions  
                                                   60out of100
                                                   
                                                   X
                                                 Florida Civic Literacy Examination (FLCE)(availability began in fall 2021) 
                                                   48out of80
                                                   
                                                   X
                                                 The Civic Literacy test  is  proctored. Students may take the exam in one of two ways, either remotely using Honorlock or at the FAU Testing and  Certification  Center. Nominal fees apply. For details regarding both testing options, visit FAU's Civic Literacy site. Free Civic Literacy workshops are available to prepare for the exam. To learn more, click here. To review frequently asked questions about the Civic Literacy Requirement, click here. Florida Atlantic University has two language requirements:  FLENT  (Foreign Language Entrance Requirement) and  FLEX  (Foreign Language Exit Requirement, also known as the Foreign Language Graduation Requirement). FLENT is an admission requirement of the State University System that requires a student to have taken two years of the same language in high school. Universities may waive the FLENT requirement for students seeking admission. However, if FLENT is waived, the student must satisfy the FLEX requirement no matter what degree is being pursued at FAU. FLEX is two semesters of the same language at the first-year college level or a demonstrated equivalent proficiency.FLEX is required for all B.S. degree programs (unless otherwise specified) and for all B.A. degree programs. Other select degrees may require FLEX (for more information, please refer to the specific degree program requirements). FLEX is also required if the FLENT entrance requirement was waived. FLEX may be satisfied by any of the following methods: Successful completion of two semesters of a first-year college-level sequence (XXX 1120/1121*) of the same foreign language.
                                                
                                           Successful completion of the second semester of a first-year college-level sequence (XXX 1121 course) OR a higher-level foreign language course. Take a placement exam and achieve a passing score to test out of the requirement. This can be fulfilled by CLEP, AP or IB (see the Acceleration Mechanisms for Undergraduate Students section of the catalog for passing scores). Students who have significant prior exposure in a foreign language and do not have one of the placement examinations listed above (CLEP, AP or IB) should contact the Department of Languages, Linguistics and Comparative Literature to complete a standardized examination. For students whose secondary or post-secondary curriculum was taught in a foreign language, the Department of Languages, Linguistics and Comparative Literature can evaluate their official school records to determine if the language proficiency has been met. Successful completion of the second semester of a first-year, college-level American Sign Language sequence, unless specified differently by the student’s degree program.* FAU has standard course numbering for its foreign language courses. All first-year, first-semester courses are numbered 1120 and all first-year, second-semester courses are numbered 1121. For example: SPN 1120; SPN 1121.  
                                          Note:  As a general guideline for placement purposes, one year of foreign language study at the high school level equates to one semester of foreign language study in college. If a student has taken one year of Spanish in high school for example, that student would normally be expected to enroll in SPN 1121, the second semester of Beginning Spanish Language and Culture. If, however, more than three years have elapsed between the student's high school language study and his/her continuation at FAU, then this guideline may not apply. Attempting to complete a foreign language requirement or an Intellectual Foundations Program (IFP) mathematics requirement in the months before graduation can sometimes derail graduation plans. To stay on track to graduate, students must plan their course schedules to ensure that these and other foundational courses are taken early in their academic careers. To ensure that students are successful, Florida Atlantic University requires that all students, whether freshmen or transfer, complete the following courses within the prescribed timeframes after matriculation: ENC 1101 (College Writing 1)   
                                                   Within first year
                                                 IFP Mathematics and QuantitativeReasoning Requirement(at least one course) 
                                                   Within first year
                                                 Foreign Language Requirement   
                                                   Within two years
                                                 Civic Literacy Requirement   
                                                   Within two years
                                                 Some students may have completed one or more of these requirements before matriculation at FAU. Students should check their Degree Audit Report to see if these requirements have been met. Florida Atlantic University has formulated policies and developed curricula to comply with the State Board of Education on ""College-Level Communication and Computation Skills,"" also known as the Gordon Rule. This rule requires students entering college or university study for the first time to successfully complete, with grades of ""C"" or higher, 12 credits of writing and 6 credits of mathematics as a requirement for admission to the upper division. The 12 writing credits must be distributed as follows: 6 credits of English coursework (College Writing 1 and 2) and 6 credits of additional coursework in which the student is required to demonstrate college-level writing skills through multiple assignments. For the computation requirement, 6 credits of mathematics must be in courses at or above the level of college algebra. The computation requirement is typically satisfied through the Foundations of Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning requirements of the Intellectual Foundations Program (noted above)  .
                                          Students transferring from out-of-state institutions who think they may have completed Gordon Rule equivalent courses with grades of ""C"" or better must obtain a letter from the previous institution that demonstrates they have fulfilled the writing or computation criteria listed above. Such letters should be mailed directly to the Office of the Registrar at FAU.
                                             
                                          Communication Skills — Writing Across the Curriculum
                                          FAU implemented its Writing Across the Curriculum (WAC) program to strengthen the teaching and learning of writing in undergraduate education. The WAC program satisfies the Gordon Rule for writing and communication by mandating that: Writing counts for at least 80 percent of the course grade in ENC 1101, ENC 1102 and ENC 1102-substitute courses. For the 2000-to-4000-level WAC courses, writing counts for at least 50 percent of the course grade; Writing assignments engage students in intellectual activities central to the course objectives; Some class time is devoted to discussing strategies for improving student writing; WAC courses include at least one substantial revision of a graded paper; Substantive feedback be provided on all writing that leads to a grade. A small number of WAC courses have been certified to substitute for College Writing 2. These 1000-level courses have the same requirements as ENC 1102, but are taught by specially trained faculty who use disciplinary readings. The current courses that substitute for ENC 1102 are listed below and are identified as WAC (Gordon Rule) courses in the course schedule. WAC courses in the 2000, 3000 and 4000 level are also listed below and as WAC (Gordon Rule) in the schedule.The University's WAC program promotes the teaching of writing across all levels and all disciplines. WAC asserts that writing-to-learn activities have proven effective in developing critical thinking skills, learning discipline-specific content and understanding and building competence in the modes of inquiry and writing for various disciplines and professions.Faculty who teach WAC classes have been specially trained to develop courses that provide frequent and significant opportunities for students to write, revise and discuss their writing. As more courses become WAC-certified, students will have increased opportunities to develop their writing and critical thinking skills from the freshman year through graduation, whatever their major course of study. For more information, contact the University Center for Excellence in Writing by clicking here or calling 561-297-3498.The following courses are available to meet the WAC (Gordon Rule) writing requirements. For a list of WAC courses offered through the Harriet L. Wilkes Honors College, see that section in this catalog. 
                                                   WAC (Gordon Rule) Courses Required
                                                   (6 credits of English coursework with a grade of ""C"" or higher):
                                                 College Writing 1(All students must take ENC 1101; there are no substitutes for this course.) ENC 1101 3 College Writing 2 (Students must take ENC 1102 or one of the substitutes for ENC 1102 appearing below.) ENC 1102 3 
                                                   WAC (Gordon Rule) substitutes for ENC 1102
                                                    
                                                 University Honors Seminar in Writing ENC 1930 3 Special Topics: College Writing 2 ENC 1939 3 
                                                   Writing History
                                                 Writing History HIS 2050 3 Being Cared For: Reflections from the Other Side of the Bed NSP 1195 3 
                                                   Required (6 credits of additional writing coursework with a grade of ""C"" or higher):
                                                   (Students must choose two of the following courses to meet the remaining writing requirements.) University Honors Seminars(various subject areas, prefixes, numbers)   3 Introduction to Anthropology ANT 2000 3 Cultures of South Asia ANT 3361 3 Architectural Research Methodsand Analysis ARC 3091 3 Honors Art Appreciation ARH 1930 3 RI:  Civil, Environmental and Geomatics Engineering Design 1 CGN 4803C 3 RI:  Civil, Environmental and Geomatics Engineering Design 2 CGN 4804C 3 Introduction to Diversity for Educators EDF 2085 3 Writing for Technical Professions ENC 2248 3 Professional  Writing
                                                      
                                                 ENC 3213 3 Advanced Exposition ENC 3310 3 Principles of Research Writing ENC 4138 3 Writing for Nonprofits ENC 4354 3 Studies in Writing and Rhetoric ENG 4020 3 RI: Engineering Technology Capstone ETG 4951 3 Honors Film Appreciation(for University Honors Program students only) FIL 2000 3 Introduction to Business Communication and  RI: Introduction to BusinessCommunication(Both available to Business juniors and higher only) GEB 3213 3 RI:  Historical Methods HIS 3150 3 Aerospace History HIS 4322 3 RI:  Senior Seminar HIS 4935 3 Honors Reading Seminar IDH 4931 1-3 Advanced Systems Analysis and Design ISM 4133 3 Italian-American Cinema ITT 3522 3 Honors Introduction to Caribbean and LatinAmerican Studies(for University Honors Program students only)
                                                      
                                                 LAS 2000 3 Interpretation of Fiction LIT 2010 3 Interpretation of Poetry LIT 2030 3 Interpretation of Drama LIT 2040 3 Interpretation of Creative Nonfiction LIT 2070 3 Senior Seminar in Public Management PAD 4935 3 Introduction to Philosophy PHI 2010 3 Profession of Social Work SOW 3302 3 Rhetorical Analysis of Democracy SPC 4273 3 The Rhetoric of Argument SPC 4517 3 Rhetorical Criticism SPC 4680 3 History of Civilization 1 WOH 2012 3 Green Consciousness WST 4349 3 
                                          
                                             Computation Skills — Gordon Rule Mathematics
                                          
                                          The Gordon Rule computation requirement may be satisfied by earning 6 credits from the following list, with a grade of “C” or higher, including at least one course with the prefix MAC or MGF.  Students typically satisfy Gordon Rule Mathematics through the Foundations of Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning requirements of the Intellectual Foundations Program (noted above). College Algebra MAC 1105 3 Trigonometry MAC 1114 3 Precalculus Algebra MAC 1140 3 Precalculus Algebra & Trigonometry MAC 1147 4 or 5 Methods of Calculus MAC 2233 3 Life Science Calculus 1 MAC 2241 4 Calculus with Analytic Geometry 1 MAC 2311 4 Calculus with Analytic Geometry 2 MAC 2312 4 Discrete Mathematics MAD 2104 3 Differential Equations 1 MAP 2302 3 Topics in Mathematics MAT 1932 1-3 University Honors Seminar in Mathematics MAT 1935 3 Math for the Liberal Arts 1 MGF 1106 3 Math for the Liberal Arts 2 MGF 1107 3 Logic PHI 2102 3 Experimental Design and Statistical Inference PSY 3234 3 Topics in Statistics STA 1932 1-3 Introductory Statistics STA 2023 3 Intermediate Statistics Lab STA 3163L 1 
                                          Note: The mathematics requirement may be partially or completely satisfied by passing the appropriate AP, IB or CLEP examination. All entering freshmen, as well as entering transfer students with no prior college-level coursework in mathematics, are   placed in their first mathematics course at FAU based on a combination of factors, including performance in high school mathematics coursework, high school overall GPA, and SAT or ACT scores. Students without this data are required to take an online assessment.  For more information about this assessment, visit the Math Placement Assessment website. Students (both first-time-in-college and transfer students with fewer than 40 credits) may apply for the Associate in Arts (A.A.) degree by the end of the third week of the semester in which the student expects to graduate. Students may not apply for the A.A. degree and a baccalaureate degree in the same semester. Students who receive the A.A. degree do not participate in the commencement programs. For details, see the Associate in Arts Degree Requirements explanation elsewhere in this section. Application form is available on the  University Advising Services website or by calling 561-297-3064. A student must apply for a degree using the Application for Degree form found in the Office of the Registrar's website by the end of the third week of the semester in which the student expects to graduate. It is the student's responsibility to meet all requirements for the degree. For the specific dates to apply for a degree, refer to the Academic Calendar. Graduate students must apply for a degree no later than the end of the third week of the semester in which the student expects to graduate. Refer to the Academic Calendar for specific deadline dates. The date printed in the Academic Calendar is the deadline date for the Application for Degree form to be accepted by the Office of the Registrar. It is the student's responsibility to allow adequate time to obtain signatures AND meet the Application for Degree deadline. Students cannot submit this form directly to the Office of the Registrar; it requires approval by the Graduate College Dean. (Depending upon the graduate program, additional signatures may be required prior to submitting to the Graduate College.)  The Application for Degree form can be found on the Office of the Registrar's website. This form can be submitted prior to the semester a student expects to graduate.Graduating Student Survey
                                          As part of the degree application process, all students are required to complete the Graduating Student Survey. This brief online survey provides a snapshot of the student’s post-graduation plans. University funding is tied to FAU's ability to report this information. All graduating students must complete the survey to obtain their official transcript. The link to complete the survey will be emailed to students two weeks prior to the last day of classes.  Most of the colleges and departments of the University require prerequisites for upper-division transfer and second baccalaureate students. In addition, many colleges and departments recommend courses for their majors. A course may be used to satisfy both a college or department requirement and also a University requirement (e.g., a geology major may use general chemistry to satisfy a Department of Geosciences admission requirement and the general education natural science requirement). The following are the college and department lists of required and recommended courses. In this list, check the college and department in which a major is planned. 
                                          Links to Lower-Division Requirements
                                        
                                          Dorothy F. Schmidt College of Arts and Letters
                                        
                                          College of Business
                                        
                                          College of Education
                                        
                                          College of Engineering and Computer Science
                                        
                                          Harriet L. Wilkes Honors College
                                        
                                          Christine E. Lynn College of Nursing
                                        
                                          Charles E. Schmidt College of Science
                                        
                                          College of Social Work and Criminal Justice
                                        The Dorothy F. Schmidt College of Arts and Letters offers the Bachelor of Architecture degree (B.Arch.) and the Bachelor of Arts degrees (B.A.) with majors in Anthropology, Art, Communication Studies, English, History, Interdisciplinary Studies, Jewish Studies, Languages and Linguistics, Multimedia Studies, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Sociology, and Theatre. The Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) may be earned in Art and Theatre. The College also awards the Bachelor of Music (B.M.), and a Bachelor of Music Education (B.M.E.) is offered in conjunction with the College of Education. The College also offers a Bachelor of Public Management (B.P.M.) and a Bachelor of Public Safety Administration (B.P.S.A.). Students should refer to the appropriate desired major in the Dorothy F. Schmidt College of Arts and Letters section of this catalog for lower-division and major requirements. It is highly recommended that all College of Arts and Letters majors register for and attend either a freshman or transfer student orientation prior to their initial registration. More information regarding all requirements is available through the college's Office of Student Academic Services, 561-297-3800 (Boca Raton campus), 954-236-1101 (Davie campus) or 561-799-8698 (Jupiter campus). The five-year professional Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.) degree is based on a total of 159 credits. Entry into the program is possible at the junior, senior or thesis level, provided the student has presented an acceptable portfolio and completed all prerequisite courses. Students who have completed the A.A. degree with required architecture prerequisite courses at Florida's community or state colleges may enter the B.Arch. program at the junior level and complete 99 credits beyond the A.A. degree. Students who have completed design studios beyond the A.A. level at an approved, accredited institution may enter the program at a level determined by faculty based on a portfolio review. 
                                                   Architecture: Lower-Division Prerequisites
                                                 Architectural Design 1 through 4, ArchitecturalHistory, Architectural Theory, Structures,Materials and Methods, Methods of Calculus andCollege Physics with Lab (the lab is to be takenonly if the second core science class is takenwithout a lab) 35 
                                                   Recommended Courses:
                                                   Art Appreciation 3 Trigonometry 3 Public Management: Lower-Division Prerequisites 
                                                   Required Courses:
                                                   Government of the U.S. 3 Macroeconomic Principles 3 Information Systems Fundamentals 3 Statistics 3  
                                        Students in the College of Business, except Health Administration and General Economics majors, are required to complete the following courses, with a grade of ""C"" or better in each: Accounting Principles 1 and 2 6 Economic Principles (macro and micro) 6 Information Systems Fundamentals 3 Methods of Calculus 3 Introductory Statistics 3 The College of Education offers undergraduate degree programs in Early Care and Education, Elementary Education, English Education, Exceptional Student Education, Mathematics Education, Science Education, and Social Studies Education. Students should refer to the appropriate desired major in the College of Education section of this catalog for lower-division and major requirements.Due to numerous changes in the general education lower-division preparation requirements, it is important for all College of Education majors to register for and attend either a freshman or transfer student orientation prior to their initial registration. More information regarding all requirements is available through the College of Education Office for Academic and Student Services. All entering students must meet University requirements. The Division of Engineering Student Services (561-297-2780) is available to assist students who are undecided as to a major field of study.The College of Engineering and Computer Science fully complies with the State of Florida Common Prerequisites for Computer Science and Engineering. Students transferring from Florida community or state colleges who have completed these prerequisites and met admission standards will be admitted to the college.Detailed advising sheets outlining the courses needed at the community or state college and at FAU are available for students transferring from Miami Dade, Broward, Palm Beach and Indian River colleges. These sheets also provide a useful guide for students transferring from other institutions. Students should contact their community or state college advisor or the FAU department in which they intend to enroll.All students should be aware of academic program graduation requirements (indicated in the departmental listings) that specify certain minimum grades in calculus, physics, and other courses. The Wilkes Honors College, located on the John D. MacArthur campus in Jupiter, offers four-year academic programs resulting in a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science degree in Liberal Arts and Sciences or a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Physical Sciences.Information about lower-division (core) requirements, core requirement descriptions, and  other graduation requirements is available   here. For further information, see the Honors College section of this catalog.Concentration  Requirements
                                          In addition to fulfilling the core and other graduation requirements, students must complete the requirements in their  concentration,  which include an honors thesis. Honors College students may  elect a concentration  in: American Studies, Anthropology, Art (Transdisciplinary Visual Arts), Biological Anthropology, Biological Chemistry, Biology, Business, Chemistry, Data Analytics, Economics, English Literature, Environmental Science, Environmental Studies, History (Interdisciplinary), Interdisciplinary Critical Theory, International Studies, Latin American Studies, Law and Society, Marine Biology, Mathematical Sciences (Interdisciplinary), Mathematics, Medical Humanities, Neuroscience, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, Psychology, Spanish, Women’s Studies or Writing or design their own concentration in consultation with faculty advisors. Information about the requirements for each  concentration is available   here.
                                        
                                                   Transfer Students
                                                   General Education Prerequisites:   English Composition 1 3 English Composition 2 3 Humanities 6 Introduction to Sociology 3 Introduction to Psychology 3 Bachelor of Science in Nursing   Preprofessional Phase   Nursing Prerequisites:   Anatomy and Physiology 1 with Lab 3 Anatomy and Physiology 2 with Lab 3 Microbiology with Lab 3 General Chemistry with Lab 4 Nutrition 3 Human Growth and Development Across the Life Span 3 Gordon Rule Math 3 Statistics 3 Other General Education Courses to Total 60 
                                                   Bachelor of Science in Nursing
                                                   
                                                   
                                                      Professional Program – Four-Year Degree Program
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   Core Curriculum, General Education Prerequisite Requirements
                                                 English Composition   College Writing 1+ ENC 1101 3 College Writing 2+ ENC 1102 3 + Writing Across Curriculum (Gordon Rule) course 
                                                   
                                                      Mathematics
                                                     (6 credits minimum; two courses from the following list, including at least one course with a prefix MAC or MGF; Gordon Rule; must receive a ""C"" or better): Math for Liberal Arts 1 MGF 1106 3 Math for Liberal Arts 2 MGF 1107 3 College Algebra MAC 1105 3 Trigonometry MAC 1114 3 Methods of Calculus MAC 2233 3 Calculus with Analytic Geometry 1 MAC 2311 3 Calculus with Analytic Geometry 2 MAC 2312 3 Introductory Statistics or higher level, required STA 2023 3 
                                                   
                                                      Social Sciences 
                                                    (9 credits, three courses from three departments): Introduction to Anthropology ANT 2000 3 World Geography GEA 2000 3 Microeconomic Principles  ECO 2023 3 Macroeconomic Principles ECO 2013 3 Contemporary Economic Issues ECP 2002 3 Government of the U.S. POS 2041 3 Introduction to World Politics INR 2002 3 General Psychology* PSY 1012 3 Introductory Sociology* SYG 1000 3 Social Problems SYG 2010 3 * Required for nursing; a grade of ""C"" or better. 
                                                   
                                                      Humanities
                                                      (9 credits, three courses, choose two courses from two departments): Interpretation of Fiction** LIT 2010 3 Interpretation of Poetry** LIT 2030 3 Interpretation of Drama** LIT 2040 3 Introduction to Philosophy** PHI 2010 3 History of Civilization 1** WOH 2012 3 ** Writing Across Curriculum (Gordon Rule) course   and choose one from the following five courses: Art Appreciation ARH 2000 3 Appreciation of Dance DAN 2100 3 Film Appreciation FIL 2000 3 History and Appreciation of Music MUL 2010 3 Appreciation of Theatre THE 2000 3 
                                                   
                                                      Sciences
                                                      (20 credits):     Anatomy and Physiology 1 with Lab   3 Anatomy and Physiology 2 with Lab   3 Chemistry with Lab   4 Microbiology with Lab   4 Nutrition   3 Human Development   3 
                                                   Major Department Requirements
                                                   
                                                   
                                                      Biological Sciences
                                                   
                                                   General Biology (or Botany and Zoology) 8 General Chemistry with Lab 8 Organic Chemistry with Lab 8 General Physics with Lab 10 Mathematics (including one semester of calculus and statistics) 6-8 
                                                   
                                                      Recommended Elective
                                                   
                                                   Foreign Language* 8 
                                                   
                                                      Chemistry
                                                   
                                                   General Chemistry 8 Calculus 8 Organic Chemistry 8 General Physics 10 
                                                   
                                                      Recommended Elective
                                                   
                                                   Foreign Language* 8 
                                                   
                                                      Geography
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   Required Courses
                                                   World Geography 3 Introduction to Physical Geography 3 Statistics, recommended 3 Foreign Language Requirement for Geography 8 
                                                   Geology  –   Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science
                                                 General Chemistry with Lab 8 Calculus 8-12 General Physics with Lab 10 Biological Principles (or Botany or Zoology) 8 
                                                   
                                                      Recommended Electives
                                                   
                                                   Foreign Language* 8 Two lab science courses 8 Computer competency 3 
                                                   Mathematics  –   Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science
                                                 Calculus (including Calculus 3) 10 
                                                   
                                                      Recommended Electives
                                                   
                                                   Differential Equations 3 General Physics with Lab 10 Foreign Language* 8 Fortran or Pascal Programming 3 Linear Algebra 3 Discrete Mathematics 3 
                                                   Physics  –   Bachelor of Arts
                                                   General Chemistry with Lab 8 Mathematics (including one year of Calculus) 8 General Physics with Lab 10 
                                                   
                                                      Recommended Electives
                                                   
                                                   Differential Equations 3 Foreign Language* 8 
                                                   Physics  –   Bachelor of Science
                                                   Mathematics (including one year of Calculus) 8-12 General Chemistry with Lab 8 General Physics with Lab 10 
                                                   
                                                      Recommended Electives
                                                   
                                                   Differential Equations 3 Foreign Language* 8 
                                                   Psychology
                                                   Statistics 3 General Biology or Zoology 3 General Psychology 3 Psychology Elective 3 
                                                   
                                                      Recommended Elective
                                                   
                                                   Foreign Language* 8 
                                                   Urban and Regional Planning: Lower-Division Prerequisites
                                                 
                                                   
                                                      Recommended Course
                                                   
                                                   Statistics 3 Microeconomics or Macroeconomics 3 Designing the City 3 * Alternatively, the requirement may be met by making a satisfactory score on AP, CLEP or IB examinations. 
                                          Majors: Criminal Justice and Social Work
                                        
                                          College Requirements
                                          In addition to the University’s general education and degree requirements, students enrolled in the college must successfully complete a major, with a minimum grade of “C” in each major prefixed course. Students must also maintain a minimum grade point average of “C” in all coursework attempted. The College requires completion of cognate work as specified by the major program. A minimum of 45 credits toward the degree must be at the upper-division (3000 and 4000) level. 
                                                   Criminal Justice: Lower-Division Prerequisites
                                                 
                                                   
                                                      Required Courses:
                                                   
                                                   Foreign Language 8 Law, Crime and the Criminal Justice System 3 Statistics 3 
                                                   Social Work: Lower-Division Prerequisites
                                                 
                                                   
                                                      Required Courses:
                                                   
                                                   Life Science with Lab* 3 General Psychology* 3 Introductory Sociology* 3 Government of the U.S.* 3 Micro- or Macroeconomics* 3 Statistics 3 * Statewide requirement for all Social Work programs.   All combined bachelor's/master’s degree programs offered at the University require a minimum of 150 credits, comprised of a minimum of 120 credits for the baccalaureate degree and a minimum of 30 credits for the master’s degree. All combined bachelor's/doctoral degree programs require a minimum of 192 credits, comprised of a minimum of 120 credits for the baccalaureate degree and a minimum of 72 credits for the doctoral degree. All master’s degree program credits or doctoral degree program credits must be at the graduate level (5000 level or above). A maximum of 12 credits of graduate coursework may be used to satisfy both degrees. The baccalaureate degree will be conferred before the graduate degree. Individual programs may have more stringent requirements.Please see the   Degree Programs   section for a list of combined degree programs and the   college sections   for the individual combined degree program information. Graduate students are responsible for knowing and adhering to University policies and procedures pertaining to graduate education.  The following are general degree requirements for any master's degree at FAU. Students should consult the portion of the catalog dealing with their chosen program for any special or additional requirements. A minimum of 30 credits is required for any master's degree. At least one-half of the credits included in any master's degree program shall be designated as 6000-level courses or above. At least one-half of the credits offered for any master's degree shall be in a single field of concentration. A minimum grade point average of 3.0 is required on all work attempted in a graduate program. If a required thesis or dissertation deals with any federally mandated compliance issues, approval by the appropriate University committee prior to the collection of data is required. Contact the Division of Research for information (561-297-0777). A thesis may be required under the supervision of a major professor and a graduate committee, appointed specially for each student by the chair of the major department and with the approval of the dean of the student's college. The thesis must be an original work in the student's major area of specialization. The form of the thesis will follow requirements specified by the college in which it was written; the thesis must follow the Requirements for Graduate Thesis and Dissertation Guidelines, available on the Graduate College   website.   In general the thesis will comply with the publication requirements of the student's major field. One copy of the thesis is required by the University. Students should check with their graduate advisors concerning the number of additional copies requested by the college. All students submitting master's theses or dissertations will be required to submit an electronic copy to the University library using the library's online submission website. In the case of programs that offer a non-thesis option, these specifications for a thesis do not apply. If required, the student must demonstrate reading knowledge of a foreign language appropriate to the student's area of specialization as determined by the college awarding the degree. The student must complete a minimum of 30 credits beyond the requirements of the bachelor's degree, of which at least 6 credits must be in graduate-level courses in the major. For thesis students, thesis course credit is in addition to this requirement in the major and is determined by the major department. Non-thesis students must complete at least 12 credits in graduate-level courses in their major. A college or department may impose such additional requirements as the faculty may consider desirable, e.g., courses in research methodology, orientation examinations, qualifying examinations or oral examinations in defense of the thesis. The University offers the Master of Arts in Teaching degree in the following disciplines: Anthropology, English, French, Geography, Political Science and Spanish.The University offers the Master of Science in Teaching degree in the following disciplines: Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Economics, Mathematical Sciences and Physics. 
                                          Admission Requirements
                                          For admission requirements for these degrees see the Graduate Degree Program Information heading in the appropriate college section in this catalog. 
                                          Degree Requirements
                                        A minimum of 30 credits (excluding internship) beyond the baccalaureate is required. These include:
A minimum of 18 credits in the major subject, of which 12 must be in graduate-level courses;
                                                A minimum of 6 credits involving the study and report of a significant instructional problem in the major discipline. The thesis may be waived and coursework substituted by the supervisory committee or advisor.
                                              A minimum of 18 credits in the major subject, of which 12 must be in graduate-level courses; A minimum of 6 credits involving the study and report of a significant instructional problem in the major discipline. The thesis may be waived and coursework substituted by the supervisory committee or advisor. An internship worth 6 credits is required. Completion of the core curriculum and the area of special concentration is required. A minimum grade point average of 3.0 in all work attempted in the graduate program is required. See the   Dorothy F. Schmidt College of Arts and Letters section   of this catalog describing the M.F.A. degrees for additional requirements for graduation.   A second master's degree will be conferred upon the same individual if the second degree represents at least 30 graduate-level credits of additional work in the discipline and if all of the requirements of the college awarding the degree have been fully met. A course from a prior master’s degree can be used to satisfy a degree requirement for a second master’s degree, but then additional coursework in the discipline may be required to attain a minimum of 30 unique graduate credits. Note: The policy on Transfer Credits applies to second master’s degrees.
                                             Supervisory Committee for Master's and Specialist's Degrees
                                             Each graduate student preparing a thesis shall have a supervisory committee composed of at least three members of the graduate faculty or associate graduate faculty. One of the members shall serve as the chair of the supervisory committee. The supervisory committee shall approve the student's plan of study, monitor the student's academic progress, approve the thesis subject, evaluate the thesis defense and approve the final document. The minor, or related fields, if applicable, shall have representation on the supervisory committee.
                                             Plan of Study for Master's and Specialist's Degrees
                                          
                                        All degree-seeking graduate students should have an approved Plan of Study on file with the Graduate College no later than halfway through their required coursework and before enrolling in thesis or dissertation credits, if applicable. Students must have an approved Plan of Study on file with the Graduate College prior to the term in which they intend to graduate. All students receive an email confirmation through the MyPOS system when their Plan of Study is approved by the Dean of the Graduate College. Changes to an approved Plan of Study require the submission and approval of   a revision. If the approved Plan of Study was submitted online through the MyPOS system, any revision(s) must also be submitted online via MyPOS. If the approved Plan of Study was submitted on paper, any revision(s) must be submitted using the paper Form 9-Revision to Existing Plan of Study. Revisions need only be filed once and may be submitted during the final term in which the student plans to graduate. A Form 12-Research Compliance and Safety form must be completed by any graduate student conducting research involving human or animal subjects, intellectual property issues, or environmental health and safety training for the thesis. Any federally mandated compliance issues must be approved by the appropriate University committee prior to the collection of data. Doctoral degrees require at least 72 credits beyond the baccalaureate degree. For specific requirements of individual doctoral programs, see the Doctoral Degree Program Information heading in the appropriate college section. For doctoral requirements in the College of Education, see the following headings: Specialist's Degree Program Information and Doctoral Degree Program Information.   These graduate credits must be taken as part of an approved graduate program of study. Some programs require considerably more than the minimum of 72 credits because of the nature of the discipline and the standards of the associated profession. A second doctoral degree will be conferred upon the same individual if the second degree represents at least 72 credits of additional work in residence and if all of the requirements of the college awarding the degree have been met.Supervisory Committee for Doctoral Degrees
                                          Each doctoral candidate shall have an advisor and a supervisory committee composed of at least three members of the graduate faculty. One of the members shall serve as the chair of the supervisory committee. The supervisory committee shall approve the student's plan of study, monitor the student's academic progress, approve the dissertation subject, prepare, give, and evaluate the qualifying examination, evaluate the dissertation defense and approve the final document. The minor, or related fields, if applicable, shall have representation on the supervisory committee. 
                                          Plan of Study for Doctoral Degrees
                                        All degree-seeking graduate students should have an approved Plan of Study on file with the Graduate College no later than halfway through their required coursework and before enrolling in thesis or dissertation credits, if applicable. Students must have an approved Plan of Study on file with the Graduate College prior to the term in which they intend to graduate. All students receive an email confirmation through the MyPOS system when their Plan of Study is approved by the Dean of the Graduate College. Changes to an approved Plan of Study require the submission and approval of a revision. If the approved Plan of Study was submitted online through the MyPOS system, any revision(s) must also be submitted online via MyPOS. If the approved Plan of Study was submitted on paper, any revision(s) must be submitted using the paper Form 9-Revision to Existing Plan of Study. In addition, changes to the supervisory committee require a paper Form 9 for all doctoral students with an approved Form 8-Admission to Candidacy on file with the Graduate College. Revisions need only be filed once and may be submitted during the final term in which the student plans to graduate. A Form 12-Research Compliance and Safety form must be completed by any graduate student conducting research involving human of animal subjects, intellectual property issues, or environmental health and safety training for the dissertation. Any federally mandated compliance issues must be approved by the appropriate University committee prior to the collection of data. 
                                          Admission to Candidacy for Doctoral Degrees
                                        Graduate students become candidates for the doctoral degree once they are granted formal admission to candidacy. Such admission requires the approval of the student's supervisory committee, the department chair, the college dean and the dean of the Graduate College. The approval must be based on (a) the academic record of the student, (b) the opinion of the supervisory committee concerning overall fitness for candidacy, (c) an approved dissertation topic and (d) a qualifying examination as determined by the appropriate department/program. Application for admission to candidacy should be made as soon as the qualifying examination has been passed and a dissertation topic has been approved by the student's supervisory committee.  To be formally admitted to candidacy, the student must submit a Form 8-Admission to Candidacy for the Doctoral Degree to the Graduate College. All students receive an email confirmation when the Admission to Candidacy form is approved by the Dean of the Graduate College. An approved Plan of Study must be on file with the Graduate College prior to formal admission to candidacy. Students must be admitted to candidacy at least one semester before applying for graduation. Students may not register for dissertation credit until they have been admitted to candidacy. Boca Raton Dania Beach Davie Fort Lauderdale Harbor Branch Jupiter Academic Calendar Employment Opportunities Program Search Parking Report a Concern Transcripts Contact Us Directory Emergency & Safety FAU Schools Media Search Programs Request Info Visit Our Campuses Privacy Policy Regulations & Policies Consumer Information Employment Opportunities Get Help Site Index Accessibility Public Records","major: Computing & Information Sciences 
                    Degree: Master of Science
                 (MS)             
                            Concentration: Data Science (Non-Thesis)
                2023-2024
     Degree: Master of Science
                 (MS)              Informational Text
The MS-CIS, Data Science concentration (Non-Thesis), requires a total of 30 graduate credit hours, of which 24 credit hours must be earned through coursework. The student must enroll in the graduate Research Experience I & & II courses. During the Research Experience, the student is required to submit a manuscript to a journal or conference proceedings or submit a grant proposal to an external funding agency. An undergraduate degree in the chosen area or equivalent, or completion of the following background subjects at the undergraduate level is required for entry into the graduate program.
Procedural and Object-Oriented Programming
Data Structures
Applied Discrete Mathematics
Databases
Computer Networks

Grades of ""B"" or above are expected in any undergraduate preparatory course work taken at UNF. Conditions for the Masters: 1. A GPA of 3.0 or better must be maintained. A GPA below 3.0, receiving a grade below 'C+' in two courses, or receipt of 'D' or 'F' in one course will result in suspension from the program. 2. No more than 6 credit hours taken outside of the School can be included in the degree. 3. No more than 6 credit hours of 5000-level courses can be applied to the degree. 4. Students must declare thesis/non-thesis option before completion 15 credit hours in the program. 5. Special Topics in Computing (CIS6930) may be approved by the Graduate Director to substitute any of the program courses.Core Requirements (9 credits)
CIS6913 Research Methods in Computing (3 Credits)CIS6372 Information Assurance (3 Credits)CEN6940 Computing Practicum (3 Credits)Concentration Requirements (9 credits)
CAP6768 Data Analytics (3 Credits)CAP6610 Machine Learning (3 Credits)COP6284 Programming for Data Science (3 Credits)Breadth Requirement (6 credits)
SELECT 2 of the following:CAP6777 Data Mining (3)CAP6100 User Experience Design (3)MAN6931 Data Visualization (3)CAP6776 Information Retrieval and Text Mining (3)CIS6930 Special Topics in Computing (3)Research Core Requirements (6 credits)
Enroll in CIS6917 Research Experiences I and CIS 6918 Research Experiences II with a faculty member for three credits each in two semesters. During the Research Experience, the student will collaborate with a Computing faculty member on a research project. Before the end of the second of the two semesters, the student is required to submit a manuscript to a journal or conference proceedings or submit a grant proposal to an external funding agency to fulfill the Research Experience requirement.
CIS6917 Research Experiences I (3 Credits)CIS6918 Research Experiences II (3 Credits)
     Informational Text Core Requirements (9 credits) Concentration Requirements (9 credits) Breadth Requirement (6 credits) Research Core Requirements (6 credits)","major: Health Informatics 
                    Degree: Master of Science
                 (MS)             
                        2023-2024
     Degree: Master of Science
                 (MS)              Prerequisites
Students entering this program must complete prerequisite coursework in statistics (STA 2023 or STA 2014), basic computing (CGS 1570 or CGS 1100), general business management (MAN 3025), marketing (MAR 3023), and medical terminology (HSA 2530).  Medical terminology is waived for students with a clinical undergraduate degree.
Major Requirements (33 credits)
HSA6512 Leadership and Organizational Behavior in Healthcare (3 Credits)CAP6768 Data Analytics (3 Credits)HSA6396 Strategic Planning for Health Information Systems (3 Credits)HSA6386 Population Health for Administrators (3 Credits)HSA6149 HC Planning/Project Man (3 Credits)HIM6667 Health Info and Interoperability (3 Credits)HIM6122 Clinical Sys & Decision Support (3 Credits)HSA6327 Healthcare Rev Management (3 Credits)HIM6121 Health Info Reg Compliance (3 Credits) SELECT 2 ELECTIVE COURSES (6 credits):HIM6123 Clinical Workflow Design (3 Credits)CAP6777 Data Mining (3 Credits)CAP6100 User Experience Design (3 Credits)ECO6415 Making Decisions with Data (3 Credits)ISM6404 Applications of Business Analytics (3 Credits)HIM6908 Independent Study in HI (3 credits)
     Prerequisites Students entering this program must complete prerequisite coursework in statistics (STA 2023 or STA 2014), basic computing (CGS 1570 or CGS 1100), general business management (MAN 3025), marketing (MAR 3023), and medical terminology (HSA 2530).  Medical terminology is waived for students with a clinical undergraduate degree. Major Requirements (33 credits) University of North Florida (904) 620-1000 View Map Follow UNF on If you are experiencing difficulty accessing information on the site due to a disability, visit our 
		website accessibility page.
	","major: Computing & Information Sciences 
                    Degree: Master of Science
                 (MS)             
                            Concentration: Data Science (Thesis)
                2023-2024
     Degree: Master of Science
                 (MS)              Concentration: Data Science (Thesis) Informational Text
The MS-CIS, Data Science concentration (Thesis), requires a total of 30 graduate credit hours, of which 24 credit hours must be earned through coursework. The student must enroll in the graduate Thesis course for at least two semesters, which would require the student to conduct an in-depth study of a research problem leading to the composition of a Masterâ€™s Thesis that summarizes the the studentâ€™s findings. The student must defend her/his thesis in a presentation that is open to the general public and evaluated by a faculty committee. An undergraduate degree in the chosen area or equivalent, or completion of the following background subjects at the undergraduate level is required for entry into the graduate program.
Procedural and Object-Oriented Programming
Data Structures
Applied Discrete Mathematics
Databases
Computer Networks

Grades of ""B"" or above are expected in any undergraduate preparatory course work taken at UNF. Conditions for the Masters: 1. A GPA of 3.0 or better must be maintained. A GPA below 3.0, receiving a grade below 'C+' in two courses, or receipt of 'D' or 'F' in one course will result in suspension from the program. 2. No more than 6 credit hours taken outside of the School can be included in the degree. 3. No more than 6 credit hours of 5000-level courses can be applied to the degree. 4. Students must declare thesis/non-thesis option before completion 15 credit hours in the program. 5. Special Topics in Computing (CIS6930) may be approved by the Graduate Director to substitute any of the program courses.Core Requirements (9 credits)
CIS6913 Research Methods in Computing (3 Credits)CIS6372 Information Assurance (3 Credits)CEN6940 Computing Practicum (3 Credits)Concentration Requirements (9 credits)
CAP6768 Data Analytics (3 Credits)CAP6610 Machine Learning (3 Credits)COP6284 Programming for Data Science (3 Credits)Breadth Requirement (6 credits)
SELECT 2 of the following:CAP6777 Data Mining (3)CAP6100 User Experience Design (3)MAN6931 Data Visualization (3)CAP6776 Information Retrieval and Text Mining (3)CIS6930 Special Topics in Computing (3)Thesis (6 credits)
Enroll in CIS 6970 Thesis for at least two terms. More enrollments may be allowed to fulfill the thesis requirements, but only six credits are applicable to the degree. In order to enroll in the Thesis course, the student must obtain the approval of the Graduate Director and a Thesis Advisor.
The student conducts an in-depth study of a research problem leading to a Masters Thesis that summarizes the student findings. The student defends the Thesis in a presentation that is open to the general public and evaluated by a faculty committee.
CIS6970 Thesis: Computer Science (3 Credits)
     Informational Text The MS-CIS, Data Science concentration (Thesis), requires a total of 30 graduate credit hours, of which 24 credit hours must be earned through coursework. The student must enroll in the graduate Thesis course for at least two semesters, which would require the student to conduct an in-depth study of a research problem leading to the composition of a Masterâ€™s Thesis that summarizes the the studentâ€™s findings. The student must defend her/his thesis in a presentation that is open to the general public and evaluated by a faculty committee. An undergraduate degree in the chosen area or equivalent, or completion of the following background subjects at the undergraduate level is required for entry into the graduate program. Procedural and Object-Oriented Programming Data Structures Applied Discrete Mathematics Databases Computer Networks Core Requirements (9 credits) Concentration Requirements (9 credits) Breadth Requirement (6 credits) Thesis (6 credits) Enroll in CIS 6970 Thesis for at least two terms. More enrollments may be allowed to fulfill the thesis requirements, but only six credits are applicable to the degree. In order to enroll in the Thesis course, the student must obtain the approval of the Graduate Director and a Thesis Advisor. The student conducts an in-depth study of a research problem leading to a Masters Thesis that summarizes the student findings. The student defends the Thesis in a presentation that is open to the general public and evaluated by a faculty committee. CIS6970 Thesis: Computer Science (3 Credits)","major: Fine Arts Degree: Bachelor of Fine Arts
                 (BFA)              Concentration: Ceramics Prerequisites (24 credits)
Grades of C or above required in all prerequisite courses. Note: Students should continually take art history courses with other art courses to properly prepare for the major.
ARH2050 Art History Survey I (3 Credits)ARH2051 Art History Survey II (3 Credits)ART1201C Two-Dimensional Design (3 Credits)
Acceptable substitute: ART X201, X803C, X202C
ART2203C Three-Dimensional Design (3 Credits)
Acceptable substitute: ART X202C, X203, X701C, X203C
ART1300C Drawing I (3 Credits)ART2301C Drawing II (3 Credits)
Prerequisites: ART1300C
Acceptable substitutes: ARTX330C, X205, X310C, X305C, X301C, X200C, X353C, X312C, X500, X500C
SELECT 2 INTRO MEDIA COURSES (6 Credits)Select 1 2D and 1 3D Course from the lists below2D Choices:ART2400C Intro to Printmaking (3 Credits)Prerequisites: ART1300C, ART 2301C
PGY2401C Introduction to Photography (3 Credits)
Prerequisites: Completion of 30 undergraduate hours 
ART2500C Painting I (3 Credits)
Prerequisites: ART1201C, ART 2301C
ART2605C Basic Computer Images (3 Credits)3D Choices:ART3707C Sculpture I (3 Credits)
Prerequisites: ART2203C
Major Requirements (12 credits)
Prerequisite Policy: Courses must be taken in prerequisite order. Please check the catalog course description section for prerequisites required for each course prior to registering. Prerequisites are strictly enforced by the department and registrar. First-day attendance rule: Any student who misses the first day without advanced notice to the instructor will be administratively withdrawn from that course. Grades of C or above are required in all major courses.
All Fine Arts Majors take the following courses:
ART4965C Professional Practices (3 Credits)
Art Department highly recommends taking Professional Practices in your final semester.
SELECT 2 ARH COURSES (3000/4000) (6 credits)SELECT 1 CONTEMPORARY ISSUES SEMINAR:ART3834 Curatorial Practices (3 credits)ART4935 Seminar (3 credits)ART4800/PHI3800 Aesthetics of ART (3 credits)Concentration Requirements (27 credits)
ART3786C Ceramics (3 Credits)
Repeatable for a maximum of 6 credits
ART3765C Intermediate Ceramics (3 Credits)
Prerequisite: ART3786C
Repeatable for a maximum of 9 credits
ART4788C Ceramic Aesthetic (3 Credits)
Prerequisite: ART3786C
ART4768C Advanced Ceramics (3 Credits)
Prerequisite: ART3786C
Repeatable for a maximum of 9 credits
ART4929C Senior Project (3 Credits)
Art Department highly recommends taking Senior Project in your final semester.
Major Electives (15 credits)
Grades of C or above required in all major elective courses. Please refer to the course description for repeatability information.
SELECT 5 FINE ART COURSES ART/PGY
1 course may be at the 2000 level. Maximum of 2 courses in your concentration.
Free Electives (6 credits)
SELECT 6 HOURS FREE ELECTIVES
This degree requires a minimum of 120 total hours with 48 upper (3000/4000) level hours. Free electives may be courses in any discipline (provided the required prerequisites are met) and they are the hours needed to satisfy the total hour requirement. These hours may vary (consult your advisor about free elective hours needed to graduate)
     Prerequisites (24 credits) Grades of C or above required in all prerequisite courses. Note: Students should continually take art history courses with other art courses to properly prepare for the major. Major Requirements (12 credits) Prerequisite Policy: Courses must be taken in prerequisite order. Please check the catalog course description section for prerequisites required for each course prior to registering. Prerequisites are strictly enforced by the department and registrar. First-day attendance rule: Any student who misses the first day without advanced notice to the instructor will be administratively withdrawn from that course. Grades of C or above are required in all major courses. All Fine Arts Majors take the following courses: Concentration Requirements (27 credits) Major Electives (15 credits) Grades of C or above required in all major elective courses. Please refer to the course description for repeatability information. SELECT 5 FINE ART COURSES ART/PGY 1 course may be at the 2000 level. Maximum of 2 courses in your concentration. Free Electives (6 credits) SELECT 6 HOURS FREE ELECTIVES This degree requires a minimum of 120 total hours with 48 upper (3000/4000) level hours. Free electives may be courses in any discipline (provided the required prerequisites are met) and they are the hours needed to satisfy the total hour requirement. These hours may vary (consult your advisor about free elective hours needed to graduate) University of North Florida (904) 620-1000 View Map Follow UNF on If you are experiencing difficulty accessing information on the site due to a disability, visit our 
		website accessibility page.
	","Program Requirements PSY 520 - History and Systems of Psychology  3 credit hours PSY 525 - Diversity and Ethics  3 credit hours PSY 530 - Research Methods I  3 credit hours PSY 535 - Research Methods II  3 credit hours PSY 540 - Advanced Social Psychology  3 credit hours PSY 545 - Learning and Cognition  3 credit hours PSY 550 - Lifespan Development  3 credit hours PSY 555 - Physiological Psychology  3 credit hours PSY 560 - Psychology of Teaching and Practice  3 credit hours PSY 625 - Tests and Measures  3 credit hours PSY 690 - Thesis/Capstone Project I  3 credit hours PSY 695 - Thesis/Capstone Project II  3 credit hours","
			
						HELP
	2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog																	Master of Science in Computer Science
				Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 																
															
																	
															
				As the complexity of enterprise systems and critical IT infrastructure continues to grow, there is a strong demand for highly skilled computer science and information technology specialists well versed in the science of developing advanced computer-based solutions to real-world problems. In response to this demand for computer specialists, a new M.S. Computer Science degree is being proposed. The degree will prepare graduates for a diverse range of careers in the Information Technology (IT) industry. The M.S. Computer Science curriculum has been designed to provide depth and breadth of fundamental theory and practical applications to prepare students to design, implement, and evaluate computing technology to solve real world problems.
			

																
												
		Major RequirementsCOM 508 - Secure Software Design  3 credit hoursCOM 510 - Principles of Cybersecurity Management  3 credit hoursCOM 542 - Advanced Computer Architecture  3 credit hoursCOM 545 - Web Services Security  3 credit hoursCOM 560 - Fundamentals of Software Engineering  3 credit hoursCOM 562 - Advanced Operating Systems  3 credit hoursCOM 563 - Analysis of Algorithms  3 credit hoursCOM 566 - Database Systems  3 credit hoursCOM 571 - Intro to Artificial Intelligence  3 credit hoursCOM 575 - Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  3 credit hoursOptional ElectiveCOM 625 - Internship  3 - 6 credit hoursTotal Credit Hours:  30													
												 
			
						HELP
	2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog																	Master of Science in Computer Science
				Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 																
															
																	
															
				As the complexity of enterprise systems and critical IT infrastructure continues to grow, there is a strong demand for highly skilled computer science and information technology specialists well versed in the science of developing advanced computer-based solutions to real-world problems. In response to this demand for computer specialists, a new M.S. Computer Science degree is being proposed. The degree will prepare graduates for a diverse range of careers in the Information Technology (IT) industry. The M.S. Computer Science curriculum has been designed to provide depth and breadth of fundamental theory and practical applications to prepare students to design, implement, and evaluate computing technology to solve real world problems.
			

																
												 
			
						HELP
	2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog																	Master of Science in Computer Science
				Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 																
															
																	
															
				As the complexity of enterprise systems and critical IT infrastructure continues to grow, there is a strong demand for highly skilled computer science and information technology specialists well versed in the science of developing advanced computer-based solutions to real-world problems. In response to this demand for computer specialists, a new M.S. Computer Science degree is being proposed. The degree will prepare graduates for a diverse range of careers in the Information Technology (IT) industry. The M.S. Computer Science curriculum has been designed to provide depth and breadth of fundamental theory and practical applications to prepare students to design, implement, and evaluate computing technology to solve real world problems.
			

																 
						HELP
	2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog																	Master of Science in Computer Science
				Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 																
															
																	
															 
						HELP
	2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog																	Master of Science in Computer Science
				Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 																
															 
						HELP
	2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog																	Master of Science in Computer Science
				Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 																 HELP HELP HELP Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 
																	  As the complexity of enterprise systems and critical IT infrastructure continues to grow, there is a strong demand for highly skilled computer science and information technology specialists well versed in the science of developing advanced computer-based solutions to real-world problems. In response to this demand for computer specialists, a new M.S. Computer Science degree is being proposed. The degree will prepare graduates for a diverse range of careers in the Information Technology (IT) industry. The M.S. Computer Science curriculum has been designed to provide depth and breadth of fundamental theory and practical applications to prepare students to design, implement, and evaluate computing technology to solve real world problems. 
		Major RequirementsCOM 508 - Secure Software Design  3 credit hoursCOM 510 - Principles of Cybersecurity Management  3 credit hoursCOM 542 - Advanced Computer Architecture  3 credit hoursCOM 545 - Web Services Security  3 credit hoursCOM 560 - Fundamentals of Software Engineering  3 credit hoursCOM 562 - Advanced Operating Systems  3 credit hoursCOM 563 - Analysis of Algorithms  3 credit hoursCOM 566 - Database Systems  3 credit hoursCOM 571 - Intro to Artificial Intelligence  3 credit hoursCOM 575 - Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  3 credit hoursOptional ElectiveCOM 625 - Internship  3 - 6 credit hoursTotal Credit Hours:  30													 Major RequirementsCOM 508 - Secure Software Design  3 credit hoursCOM 510 - Principles of Cybersecurity Management  3 credit hoursCOM 542 - Advanced Computer Architecture  3 credit hoursCOM 545 - Web Services Security  3 credit hoursCOM 560 - Fundamentals of Software Engineering  3 credit hoursCOM 562 - Advanced Operating Systems  3 credit hoursCOM 563 - Analysis of Algorithms  3 credit hoursCOM 566 - Database Systems  3 credit hoursCOM 571 - Intro to Artificial Intelligence  3 credit hoursCOM 575 - Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  3 credit hoursOptional ElectiveCOM 625 - Internship  3 - 6 credit hoursTotal Credit Hours:  30 Major RequirementsCOM 508 - Secure Software Design  3 credit hoursCOM 510 - Principles of Cybersecurity Management  3 credit hoursCOM 542 - Advanced Computer Architecture  3 credit hoursCOM 545 - Web Services Security  3 credit hoursCOM 560 - Fundamentals of Software Engineering  3 credit hoursCOM 562 - Advanced Operating Systems  3 credit hoursCOM 563 - Analysis of Algorithms  3 credit hoursCOM 566 - Database Systems  3 credit hoursCOM 571 - Intro to Artificial Intelligence  3 credit hoursCOM 575 - Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  3 credit hoursOptional ElectiveCOM 625 - Internship  3 - 6 credit hours Major Requirements  COM 508 - Secure Software Design  3 credit hours COM 508 - Secure Software Design  3 credit hours COM 508 - Secure Software Design  COM 510 - Principles of Cybersecurity Management  3 credit hours COM 510 - Principles of Cybersecurity Management  COM 542 - Advanced Computer Architecture  3 credit hours COM 542 - Advanced Computer Architecture  COM 545 - Web Services Security  3 credit hours COM 545 - Web Services Security  COM 560 - Fundamentals of Software Engineering  3 credit hours COM 560 - Fundamentals of Software Engineering  COM 562 - Advanced Operating Systems  3 credit hours COM 562 - Advanced Operating Systems  COM 563 - Analysis of Algorithms  3 credit hours COM 563 - Analysis of Algorithms  COM 566 - Database Systems  3 credit hours COM 566 - Database Systems  COM 571 - Intro to Artificial Intelligence  3 credit hours COM 571 - Intro to Artificial Intelligence  COM 575 - Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  3 credit hours COM 575 - Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems  Optional Elective COM 625 - Internship  3 - 6 credit hours COM 625 - Internship  Total Credit Hours:  30 ","
                                                                    Quick Links
                                                                 
                                                                                2022 Spring Intercession: University Campus Classes Begin
                                                                             
                                                                                DEMO: Another Article
                                                                             
                                                                                DEMO: Yet Another Article
                                                                             
                                                                                Graduate Programs at Saint Leo University
                                                                             
                                                                                DEMO: Blog Audio Article
                                                                             
                                                                                DEMO: Blog Video Article
                                                                             
                                                                                One of the Top-Ranked Universities in Florida
                                                                             
                                                                                Meet the Faculty
                                                                             
                                                                                Points of Pride
                                                                             
                                                                                Dr Jane Goodall
                                                                             
                                                                                Dr. Who
                                                                             
                                                                                Dr. Francesca Mollini
                                                                             
                                                                                Dr. Robert Freymann
                                                                             
                                                                                Online Experience
                                                                             
                                                                                DEMO: Audio Article
                                                                             
                                                                                DEMO: Blog Article
                                                                             
                                                                                Content Well/Editor Base Styles
                                                                             
                                                                                Components
                                                                             Master of Business (MBA) On Ground and Online Expected Program Outcomes Apply key knowledge of core business management functions Exhibit clear and concise oral and written business communication skills Demonstrate the ability to serve as an effective team member and leader in work partnerships and cross-functional collaborative efforts Apply widely used technology to management issues Analyze complex business problems using critical thinking skills Demonstrate ethical business decisions within the context of a diverse set of stakeholders and in an economically responsible manner Analyze global forces that impact organizational success For the master's degree, students may pursue up to two concentrations concurrently. A student must receive prior approval from the program director. After conferral of a master's degree, a student may take courses as a non-degree seeking student to earn an additional concentration under his or her existing degree program. A student does not earn the same degree twice. If a student wishes to return to pursue a different degree program, he or she must reapply for admission to that program. Program ComponentsMBA 501 - Management Essentials  3 credit hoursMBA 525 - Professional Development  3 credit hoursMBA 531 - Human Capital for Organizational Performance  3 credit hoursMBA 540 - Managerial Economics  3 credit hours MBA 551 - Business Analytics  3 credit hoursorMBA 598 - Statistics  3 credit hours MBA 560 - Financial and Managerial Accounting  3 credit hoursMBA 565 - Marketing  3 credit hoursMBA 570 - Corporate Finance  3 credit hoursMBA 575 - Global Business Management  3 credit hoursMBA 599 - Strategic Management  3 credit hours Students must choose two courses from the following:MBA 594 - Enterprise Resource Planning  3 credit hoursMBA 595 - Current Issues in Leadership  3 credit hoursMBA 597 - Entrepreneurship  3 credit hours Students must choose two courses from the following: Optional ElectiveMBA 625 - Internship  3 credit hours Total Credit Hours: 33 - 36","Program ComponentsMBA 501 - Management Essentials  3 credit hoursMBA 525 - Professional Development  3 credit hoursMBA 531 - Human Capital for Organizational Performance  3 credit hoursMBA 540 - Managerial Economics  3 credit hoursMBA 560 - Financial and Managerial Accounting  3 credit hoursMBA 565 - Marketing  3 credit hoursMBA 599 - Strategic Management  3 credit hoursHCM 520 - Health Care Organization/Managed Care  3 credit hoursHCM 530 - Community Health Evaluation/Epidemiology  3 credit hoursHCM 540 - Critical Issues in Health Care  3 credit hoursHCM 550 - Health Care Management  3 credit hoursHCM 590 - Health Policy and Evaluation  3 credit hours","	
		Apply Now
	
 M.S. in Finance Admission 
                                    Admission is competitive. Applicants are encouraged to apply early. To apply, use either the paper (PDF) or online application. Applications are not reviewed until the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies receives all required materials. Students are notified of admission decisions after materials have been received and evaluated.
Sign Up for a Virtual Information Session
Admission Requirements and Documents
Completed application
$40 application fee
Official transcripts of all previous college work received directly from each institution
Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) or Graduate Records Examination (GRE) is required. Applicants may submit a request to waive the GMAT through their admissions counselor if they meet the following criteria: M.S. in Finance applicants who have passed any level of the CFA exam OR
M.S. in Finance applicants who submit sufficient evidence they meet ALL of the following criteria:
A business degree from a regionally accredited institution with a GPA of 3.25 or better
Earned a grade of B or higher in relevant coursework deemed appropriate by the Sykes College of Business admissions committee. These courses will depend on the program of interest. No exceptions on the B or higher requirement. 

Note: Meeting the criteria listed above only qualifies a student to request a GMAT waiver. All GMAT waivers are reviewed on an individual basis and must be approved by a committee. Please contact your admissions counselor for more information.
Two professional reference forms (PDF) completed by individuals who attest to the applicant's professional background and academic potential (letters of recommendation are accepted, if preferred)
Professional résumé
Personal statement: In approximately 500-1,000 words, describe your professional goals and how a graduate degree from The University of Tampa will help you accomplish those goals. In turn, you may also want to emphasize what you can contribute to the graduate program.
International applicants: Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or International English Language Testing System (IELTS) score report
Application Deadlines
There is no application deadline. Applications are evaluated for fall, spring and summer terms on a rolling basis. Qualified students are admitted until spaces are full for the relevant term. Admission is competitive, and students are encouraged to apply early. Students are notified of their status once all documents have been received.
Applicants can send required documents the following ways:
Email: grad@ut.edu
Fax: (813) 258-7451
Mail: The University of Tampa Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies 401 W. Kennedy Blvd., Box F Tampa, FL 33606-1490
Official documents must come in the original form.
                                 Admission is competitive. Applicants are encouraged to apply early. To apply, use either the paper (PDF) or online application. Applications are not reviewed until the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies receives all required materials. Students are notified of admission decisions after materials have been received and evaluated.","
	
		Master of Science in Information and Technology Management
	Technology is shaping the business world, and today’s businesses depend on technology to run and streamline their business processes. The University of Tampa's STEM approved Master of Science in Information and Technology Management prepares students for careers at different types of businesses. This 32-credit hour program develops students' depth and breadth of information technology knowledge that focuses on developing technological decision-making capabilities through analytical thinking, technology development and productivity improvement. 
The program provides a comprehensive information and technology management education that covers critical topic such as Managing the IT Organization, Effective Project Management, Enterprise Systems, Operations Management and Information Systems. In addition to these courses, students can select four other courses from a long list of courses in information systems, cybersecurity and business analytics that provides flexibility to focus on their desired area. 
The program features small class sizes and experiential learning using contemporary software through the University’s membership in several academic alliances, such as SAP, the world leader in enterprise systems, and Microsoft Corporation, and participate in real-world projects analyzing the technology needs for businesses to improve performance. Several courses are designed to cover some of the top professional certifications in the industry, such as the SAP ERP certificate and Project Management Professional (PMP) certificate. As a benefit of this program, graduates will find themselves well prepared to take many of the top certifications in the field. 

	
		
			Degree Requirements
		
			Required Prerequisite Courses (8 credit hours)
		1. QMB 500 Statistics for Decision Makers 
2. CYB 501 Fundamentals of Information Security
Note: To waive QMB 500 course, students must earn a B grade or better in business statistics courses in the past seven years. To waive CYB 501 course, students must earn a B grade or better in qualification courses in programming fundamentals, networking and information security principle in the past seven years. 
 

			 
		
			Required MS-ITM courses: (16 credit hours)
		 ITM 608Information Systems and Operations Management4
			ITM 614Effective Project Management4
			ITM 619Enterprise Systems4
			ITM 630Managing the IT Organization4
			
			 
		
			Elective courses: (16 credit hours)
		Students can select any four courses from the ITM department graduate courses (ITM, CYB, QMB)ITM 615Data Mining for Business4
			ITM 650Information Security Management4
			QMB 612Decision Modeling and Analysis4
			QMB 660Advanced Forecasting and Predictive Analytics 4
			CYB 610Cloud Systems Security4
			CYB 620Risk Assessment & Contingency Planning4
			CYB 630Incident Response Management4
			CYB 635Cybersecurity Analytics 4
			CYB 640Secure Software Design4
			CYB 650Security Governance & Leadership4
			CYB 660Penetration Testing4
			
			Note: Students who want to take Cybersecurity courses as electives will need to satisfy all prerequisite requirements for those courses. Two of the prerequisites for the MS Cybersecurity program are part of the MS-ITM prerequisites (ITM 280 and ITM 251), so only ITM 350 will be additionally required. ITM 650 can be substituted for ITM 350 and also count as an elective. 
		
	Total Credit Hours: 32-44
 
			Required Prerequisite Courses (8 credit hours)
		 
			Required MS-ITM courses: (16 credit hours)
		 ITM 608 Information Systems and Operations Management ITM 614 Effective Project Management ITM 619 Enterprise Systems ITM 630 Managing the IT Organization 
			Elective courses: (16 credit hours)
		 ITM 615 Data Mining for Business ITM 650 Information Security Management QMB 612 Decision Modeling and Analysis QMB 660 Advanced Forecasting and Predictive Analytics  CYB 610 Cloud Systems Security CYB 620 Risk Assessment & Contingency Planning CYB 630 Incident Response Management CYB 635 Cybersecurity Analytics  CYB 640 Secure Software Design CYB 650 Security Governance & Leadership CYB 660 Penetration Testing","Catalog 2023-2024 > Graduate and Continuing Studies > Graduate and Continuing Studies Degree Programs > Graduate Study in the Sykes College of Business > Master of Business Administration Catalog 2023-2024 
		Master of Business Administration
	 Full-Time and Part-Time MBA Programs Full-Time and Part-Time MBA Programs Courses are offered at convenient times during the day and evenings for full- and part-time students. Students can complete the core curriculum in as little as one year in the full-time program. Working students can complete the coursework in less than two years in the part-time evening program. The program provides students with the solid strategic-level capabilities needed for success in the 21st-century global economy, including global business knowledge, business leadership, innovation and technology, critical thinking and ethics/social responsibility. The full- and part-time programs include personalized components that equip graduates for long-term professional success, including professional development and the opportunity to obtain a concentration in an area of specific interest.  
			Business Essentials courses: (18 credit hours)
		 ACC 500 Essentials of Financial Accounting 2 ACC 501 Essentials of Managerial Accounting 2 FIN 500 Foundations of Finance 2 ECO 500 Microeconomics for Managers 2 ECO 501 Macroeconomics for Managers 2 QMB 500 Statistics for Decision Makers 4 MGT 500 Designing and Staffing Organizations 2 MKT 500 Introduction to Marketing 2 All Business Essentials requirements must be met prior to taking the MBA core. See the Business Essentials section for more information. 
			Required MBA courses: Leadership (4 credit hours)
		 MGT 602 Leadership and Organizational Behavior 4 Leadership and Organizational Behavior is a mandatory course for all MBA students in their first semester.  The course begins with a fast-start workshop weekend component.  For more information, click MGT 602 for the course description. 
			Required MBA courses: Core courses (28 credit hours)
		 ACC 610 Accounting and Value Creation 4 BUS 698 Professional Development Practicum 4 ECO 640 The Economics of Organizations 4 FIN 611 Financial Management and Strategy 4 ITM 608 Information Systems and Operations Management 4 MGT 615 Strategic Management 4 MKT 610 Strategic Marketing Analysis 4 
			Elective courses: (8 credit hours)
		  Elective 4  Decisions Analysis Elective 4 Total Credit Hours: 40-56 ","
		Master of Science in Nursing
	The Master of Science in Nursing program allows the registered nurse to continue their education to become an advanced practice nurse and specialize in one of two concentration areas: Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner or Family Nurse Practitioner. The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, the master’s degree program in nursing, and the post-graduate APRN certificate programs at the University of Tampa are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791.
The Department of Nursing offers programs at the baccalaureate, master’s and doctoral degree levels. For more information, contact the Department of Nursing at (813) 253-6223 or see www.ut.edu/nursing. 
Please be aware that successful completion of the MSN program does not confer automatic licensure as an Advanced Practice Registered Nurse. MSN graduates must successfully complete a national certification examination to be eligible for advanced practice licensure in the State of Florida.
For additional information on how this program prepares students for professional licensure, please visit: MSN disclosure.Department of Nursing Mission StatementThe primary mission of the Department of Nursing is to offer programs of study in nursing science at the baccalaureate, masters and doctoral level that prepare graduates from entry into professional nursing practice to advanced levels of nursing practice and knowledge. Through clinically relevant teaching, learning, research and active application of evidence-based practice, students are prepared to practice competently as providers and managers of care, and members of the profession in a complex, diverse, and evolving healthcare environment.
The Department of Nursing shares the commitment of the College of Natural and Health Sciences and the University to teaching, research, and service; preparing each student as a life-long learner and as a health professional providing quality, safe, evidence based and compassionate health care to the citizens of Florida, the nation, and the global community.
FacultyAssociate Professor Botwinski, Director/Chair Department of Nursing; Associate Professor Berg, Graduate Program Director; Associate Professor White, BSN Program Director;; Associate Professor D’Alesandro BSN Nursing Admissions Director, Associate Professor Delacroix; Assistant Professors Bryant, Ernewein, Pedroff, Sassatelli, Umberger; Associate Teaching Professor Culp, Director of Nursing Skills and Simulation Lab, Assistant Teaching Professors Llerena, Royal; Lecturer I Coleman, Franks, Lewis, Moyer, Snow.Admission StandardsAdmission to the MSN program is competitive. Every student admitted to the MSN program must have earned a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited college or university. At least one year of direct patient care experience within the past five years must be demonstrated.M.S. in Nursing Guaranteed Admission Students and alumni who have earned the Bachelor's of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree from UT with a minimum grade point average of 3.0 will be guaranteed admission to the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) program provided other stated requirements are satisfied.

The application fee and TOEFL requirements are waived. UT BSN earners must have a minimum of 6 months of direct patient care RN experience within the past five years instead of a full year. One letter of recommendation is required instead of two. The required prerequisite Nursing courses are satisfied with the UT BSN. A resume’ and personal statement and all other admissions requirements apply.
The guaranteed admission opportunity recognizes the exceptional quality of UT’s academic programs, and the University’s mission to support continuing education and professional growth.General Admission Requirements•	Bachelor’s degree from an institution that is nationally accredited by ACEN, CCNE, or CNEA.
•	Current licensure as a registered nurse in the state of Florida. 
•	GPA of 3.0 or higher for the last 60 credit hours completed.
•	Completed application with $40 nonrefundable fee. 
•	Official college transcripts. 
•	Résumé. 
•	Personal statement. 
•	Two letters of reference (forms are attached to the application, available at www.ut.edu/msn). 
•	Completion of an undergraduate statistics course, an undergraduate nursing research course and an undergraduate nursing leadership course. Only courses with a grade of ""B"" or better will be accepted. Students must repeat the course for grades below ""B"" prior to starting the graduate level courses. 
•	A minimum of one year of direct patient care experience as a registered nurse within the past five years must be demonstrated.
•	Optional: GRE score of 300 and 4.0 in analytical writing. 
Note: No Credits taken more than seven years prior to application will be accepted for transfer credit. Students can be admitted under two categories based on the criteria listed below.Full Admission
For full admission, applicants must have achieved the following:
Bachelor’s degree in nursing
Florida RN license
Minimum 3.0 GPA
Pre-MSN Admission*
For pre-MSN admission, applicants must have achieved the following:
A bachelor’s degree in an area other than nursing
Florida RN license
Minimum 3.0 GPA
Four required nursing prerequisites
*Students who have bachelor’s degrees in an area other than nursing are admitted as pre-MSN students and are required to take and complete NUR 322, NUR 415, NUR 432 and NUR 422 prior to starting the graduate-level curriculum. They must also have completed an undergraduate statistics course. Only grades of ""B"" or better will be accepted. Students may complete pre-MSN courses at another university with the program director's permission provided the Course Approval Form has been completed. Students will be re-evaluated for admission once the pre-MSN courses are completed.
Non-Degree Seeking Students
Students with a BSN and a valid Florida nursing license may be permitted to take up to two graduate-level nursing courses at the discretion of the program director. Non-degree seeking students are permitted to take classes only on a space-available basis, with priority registration going to current degree seeking MSN students. Those interested must apply to the University as a non-degree seeking student. Being granted permission to take classes as a non-degree seeking student does not assure admission into the MSN program. Non-degree seeking students are not eligible for University or federal financial aid. International students are not eligible for non-degree seeking student status.
Post-Master’s Certificate Admission
A student with a previously earned MSN may apply for admission to the post-master’s certificate program to complete requirements for the Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner (AGNP-PC) certificate or Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) certificate. Students will be individually evaluated to determine required coursework. There must be evidence from the previous master’s program of courses fulfilling UT requirements. Courses taken more than seven years prior to admission will not be applied toward a post-master’s certificate.
Advising
Each student will be assigned to a nurse practitioner (NP) nursing faculty member for advising purposes pertaining to course planning, academic performance, practicum placement and professional guidance. For matters related to registration, withdrawal and other academic issues, students should contact their advisor in the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies.
Student Organizations
In addition to student organizations at The University of Tampa, nursing students have access to several professional and honorary organizations. MSN students are also encouraged to join the Tampa Bay Advanced Practice Nursing Council (TBAPNC). The Delta Beta Chapter-at-Large of Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing was founded in 1980 at the University of South Florida and re-chartered in 2000 to include The University of Tampa. Delta Beta sponsors an annual research program, provides opportunities for scholarships and research grants and promotes scholarly work in the community. 
Nursing Student Handbook
More information about the MSN program can be found in the Department of Nursing MSN Student Handbook which can be found on the MSN Student Canvas site. Policies and procedures in the handbook may exceed those outlined in this catalog. See the handbook for further details.
Program and Course Requirements
Satisfactory completion of the MSN curriculum requires a minimum of 42 (Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner) or 49 (Family Nurse Practitioner) credit hours of graduate work.
MSN students must obtain a grade of “B” or higher in NUR 618, NUR 618L, NUR 645 and NUR 655 in order to progress in the program. If a student receives a grade below B in any of these four progression barrier courses, it is considered a course failure and:
The course must be repeated the next semester (or next time it is offered).
The original grade will not be removed from the student’s academic record and both course grades will be reflected on the transcript.
Student must meet with MSN director for counseling and re-design a course plan for remainder of program.
When the course is repeated – the course must be taken alone (no other course can be taken with the repeated progression barrier course).
In addition, if the student has any remaining progression barrier courses (NUR 618/618L, 645 or 655) left to take - that course must be taken alone.
No academic withdrawal is allowed with the repeated course – if the student academically withdraws, the student will be academically dismissed and ineligible to return.
If the student would receive another grade below B in any future course (that will be their second) and they will be academically dismissed from program and ineligible to return.
MSN/post-MSN students cannot earn more than one grade below a “B.” If they do, they can repeat up to one course, but the original grade will not be removed from their academic record. A second grade below “B,” regardless of grades in repeated courses, will result in academic dismissal. Students may withdraw from one course for academic reasons. Withdrawal from a second course for academic reasons will result in dismissal. Students who receive a grade less than a ""B"" in a practicum course will be required to repeat that course. No grade below “C” will be accepted toward a graduate degree or certificate completion.
A student is allowed seven years from the time graduate work begins, whether at UT or elsewhere, in which to complete the degree. Under certain circumstances, the student, with approval from the director, may retake outdated courses.
			Core Nursing Courses (apply to both concentrations):
		NUR 600Scholarly and Professional Communication in Nursing2NUR 601Professional Issues and the Nurse Practitioner  3NUR 618Advanced Health Assessment and Clinical Reasoning3NUR 618LAdvanced Health Assessment and Clinical Reasoning Lab 1NUR 620Knowledge Generation and Validation in Advanced Practice 3NUR 645Clinical Pharmacology3NUR 647Health Promotion and Disease Prevention for Families and Communities 3NUR 655Advanced Pathophysiology3
			Concentration options: Family Nurse Practitioner concentration courses:
		NUR 675Practicum in Adult Primary Care 4NUR 676Practicum in Older Adult Primary Care4NUR 677Healthcare Management of the Adult Client3NUR 680Healthcare Management of the Older Adult 3NUR 682Healthcare Management of Women 3NUR 685Practicum in Infants, Children and Adolescent Primary Care4NUR 686Practicum in Women's Primary Care 4NUR 687Healthcare Management of Infants, Children and Adolescents3
			Concentration options: Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner concentration courses:
		NUR 675Practicum in Adult Primary Care 4NUR 676Practicum in Older Adult Primary Care4NUR 677Healthcare Management of the Adult Client3NUR 680Healthcare Management of the Older Adult 3NUR 682Healthcare Management of Women 3NUR 686Practicum in Women's Primary Care 4Total Credit Hours: 42-49PRACTICUM EXPERIENCES "
